WELCOME TO THE THURSDAY, APRIL
11TH, TWENTY TWENTY BOARD
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD IN
PERSON AND ELECTRONICALLY VIA
ZOOME.
WE INTEND TO CONDUCT THIS
HYBRID MEETING SIMILARLY TO AN
IN-PERSON MEETING.
>> HOWEVER, PLEASE BE PATIENT
IF THERE ARE TECHNICAL ISSUES
MEMBERS THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD
LIKE TO COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR
OTHER MATTERS MAY DO SO IN
PERSON OR VIRTUALLY PLEASE TO
SPEAK DURING ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES PLEASE
CALL 202 SIX THREE THREE SEVEN
NINE SEVEN TWO THREE OR TOLL
FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN
ENTER MEETING ID NINE SIX FIVE
THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE SEVEN
SIX TWO.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CTM.
CTM CAN BE FOUND ON XFINITY
CHANNEL SIXTEEN AT&T CHANNEL
NINETY NINE STREAMING ONLINE ON
YOUTUBE OR AT GOOGLE WATCH
SETOUT MISS THATCHER WILL YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL.
>> YES PLEASE DON'T BE ALARMED
.
I CALL FORMER COMMISSIONER
JESSICA KINO'S NAME BECAUSE
SHE'S TECHNICALLY ON THE BOOKS
FOR ANOTHER MONTH OR TWO.
YEAH THAT'S OK SHE JUST ENDED A
LITTLE EARLY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER HERE COMMISSIONER
CALDERON, YOUR COMMISSIONER
ROSS COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HERE.
MR. KAPLAN HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER SMITH PRESENT
COMMISSIONER KIYONO
COMMISSIONER ROSS IS EXPECTED
OK, SO WE HAVE A QUORUM AND
WE'RE GOOD TO GO.
YEAH, FANTASTIC.
THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
OK, APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
DID ANYONE TAKE A LOOK AT THE
AGENDA AND WANT TO MAKE ANY
CHANGES?
I THINK IT WAS MISSING
SOMETHING BUT I DON'T KNOW IF
IT'S SO SIGNIFICANT A LEG WE GO
FROM F TO H I DON'T THINK WE
HAVE A G SO I DON'T THINK IT'S
A PROBLEM IF YOU AGREE WE CAN
JUST GO ON.
>> OK, WITHOUT OBJECTION THE
AGENDA IS APPROVED NOW WILL
HAVE PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
APPROACH THE PODIUM NOW OR JOIN
THE MEETING USING THE
INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON THE
AGENDA AND THE VIDEO FEED.
>> WE DO HAVE SEVERAL ZOO I'M
GOING TO KEEP READING THEN KEEP
READING TO ELECTRONICALLY RAISE
YOUR HAND TO INDICATE YOUR
DESIRE TO SPEAK PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS ONE
BY ONE USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER YOU
WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS SO PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE IF YOU'D LIKE
TO SPEAK IN YOUR OWN ZOOME I
DON'T SEE ANYONE APPROACHING
THE PODIUM HERE SO IF WE DON'T
HAVE ANYONE KNOW NO ONE'S
INDICATING OK, LET'S MOVE ON
FROM PUBLIC COMMENT TO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS AND WE DO
HAVE SOME UNFINISHED BUSINESS
TODAY AND THAT IS EIGHT WEST
WASHINGTON STATURE PLEASE.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH OK.
>> YOU KNOW WHAT?
WASHINGTON WAS PARTIALLY
APPROVED AT LAST MONTH'S
MEETING.
ONE PART OF THE APPLICATION
THAT YOU DIDN'T HAVE IF YOU
FELT YOU DIDN'T HAVE
SIGNIFICANT SUFFICIENT
INFORMATION WAS BROUGHT BACK TO
THIS MEETING AND THERE IS A NEW
DRAWING THAT WAS ABOUT
EXTENDING THE DRIVEWAY FROM THE
CURRENT ONE CAR SPACE IN THE
FRONT YARD.
YOU CAN SEE IT HERE WHERE THE
SILVER CARS PARKED TO TO ABOUT
ANOTHER TWENTY FEET BACK SO
THAT YOU COULD FIT TWO CARS IN
THE GARAGE.
THESE ARE PHOTOS FROM LAST
MONTH
.
THIS IS THE AREA WHERE THE NEW
PARKING SPACE WOULD GO.
IT HAS BEEN SHORTENED FROM THE
PREVIOUS DRAWINGS THAT THE
DRIVER USED TO GO ALL THE WAY
TO THE BACK CORNER OF THE
HOUSE.
NOW IT ONLY GOES ABOUT ONE MORE
CAR LENGTH AND IT STOPS SHORT
ABOUT FIVE FEET SHORT OF THIS
TREE WHICH IS A HISTORIC
RESOURCE ON THE LOT BECAUSE IT
DOES APPEAR ON NINETEEN FORTY
SEVEN AERIALS JUST A VIEW FROM
THE BACK THERE IS A GARAGE IN
THIS LOWER LEFT CORNER THAT WAS
APPROVED ON THE PREVIOUS THE
PREVIOUS MEETING.
OK THESE ARE OUR NEW UPDATED
DRAWINGS.
IT'S THE SAME DRAWING ON THE
LEFT IN THE RIGHT LEFT IS JUST
THE ENTIRE SITE YOU CAN SEE THE
EXISTING CONCRETE DRIVEWAY AND
HOW IT GETS BIGGER.
IT'S ABOUT FORTY FEET DEEP BY
TEN AND A HALF FEET WIDE AND
THIS IS A BLOW UP JUST SO YOU
CAN SEE IT A LITTLE BIT BETTER.
THEY HAVE SET IT BACK THREE
FEET FROM THE SIDE PROPERTY
LINE.
THIS IS THAT LANDMARK TREE
CANOPY IS ACTUALLY QUITE A BIT
LARGER THAN THAT.
IT WOULD IT'S FIVE FEET FROM
THE TRUNK OF THE TREE.
THE CANOPY WOULD BE OVER THIS
PAVEMENT STAFF IS NOT SUPER
CONCERNED BECAUSE THAT SORT
OF A MINIMAL AMOUNT OF PAVEMENT
THAT THAT WOULD BE UNDER THE
TREE WITHIN IT.
IT'S THE DRIP AREA OF THE
OF THE CANOPY.
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE WAS OUT ON
MONDAY.
I WAS NOT ABLE TO JOIN THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
ALEXIS DE LEO WAS THERE IN MY
PLACE SINCE THE LAST MEETING.
THIS THE TREE THE LANDMARK TREE
HAS BEEN TRIMMED.
YOU CAN SEE A LOT OF TRIMMING
GOING UP VERY FAR ON THE TREE
.
AND HERE'S A VIEW LOOKING FROM
THE BACK OF THE LOT.
THIS IS THE TRIMMED TREE.
THIS IS WHERE THE PARKING SPACE
WOULD GO FROM THE SECRETARY UP
TO YOUR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION STANDARDS TO
NINE AND TEN BEST APPLY TO SAYS
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF A
PROPERTY WILL BE RETAINED AND
PRESERVED THE REMOVAL
OF DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS OR
ALTERATION OF FEATURE SPACES
AND SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
AVOIDED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEWARK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MACING SIZE, SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
A NUMBER TEN AS NEW ADDITIONS
AND ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED.
THERE ARE MANY, MANY DESIGN
GUIDELINES THAT WOULD APPLY TO
PARKING NEW PARKING AND TREES
AND LANDSCAPE AND HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN BUILDINGS
AND OPEN SPACE.
I WILL GO THROUGH SOME OF THEM
HERE.
I DON'T THINK I WILL READ THEM
ALL BUT THEY ARE IN THE STAFF
REPORT FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR IS GUIDELINES
FOR BUILDING SITE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO LOCATE
ANY NEW CONSTRUCTION WHERE
IMPORTANT LANDSCAPE FEATURES
WILL BE DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
AND PLACING PARKING FACILITIES
DIRECTLY ADJACENT TO HISTORIC
BUILDINGS WHERE AUTOMOBILES MAY
CAUSE DAMAGE TO THE BUILDING OR
TWO IMPORTANT LANDSCAPE
FEATURES FROM THE GUIDELINES
FOR NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS AND LANDSCAPE
FEATURES OF THE SETTING.
>> IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
DESTROY THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN BUILDINGS AND LANDSCAPE
FEATURES BY WIDENING EXISTING
STREETS, CHANGING LANDSCAPE
MATERIALS OR CONSTRUCTING
INAPPROPRIATE RELOCATED NEW
STREETS OR PARKING.
THIS IS FOR THE DC TO DETERMINE
WHETHER THAT PARKING SPACE IS
APPROPRIATELY LOCATED OR NOT.
RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE FEATURES
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN MATURE TREES AND
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN
BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE FEATURES
AND OPEN SPACES AND FROM THE
INTERIOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR PAVED
AREAS.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL NEW
PARKING AREAS WHICH ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE SCALE
PROPORTION OF YARD AREA AND
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT BEHIND BUILDINGS THEY
SHALL BE REVIEWED ON A CASE BY
CASE BASIS.
>> LET ME GO BACK UP TO MY
STAFF REPORT.
YOU MAY HAVE NOTICED THAT THERE
WAS JUST A MEMO AS AN UPDATED
STAFF REPORT I STILL HAVE I
STILL HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT THIS
PROPOSAL.
>> I DON'T THINK ADDITIONAL
PARKING IS REALLY NECESSARY.
THIS IS THE HALF OF THE BLOCK
THAT IS EASIER TO PARK ON AS
YOU GET CLOSER TO DOWNTOWN.
IT'S A LOT TOUGHER TO PARK ON
WEST WASHINGTON BUT THIS IS THE
AREA WHERE IT STARTS TO TO THIN
OUT.
AT THE LAST MEETING YOU GUYS
APPROVED A TWO CAR GARAGE WHICH
IS TWO PARKING SPACES.
THIS EXISTING BASE IS A THIRD
AND REALLY MY BIGGEST CONCERN
IS PUTTING A CAR IN THE SIDE
YARD THAT'S BETWEEN TWO HOUSES
WHERE ONE HAS NEVER LIVED
BEFORE.
THIS IS GOING TO BE A RENTAL
PROPERTY AND THERE WILL BE CARS
THERE.
THAT'S WHY THE OWNER WANTS MORE
PARKING TO TO GET CARS OFF THE
STREET.
BUT I REALLY DON'T THINK THAT
IT'S VISUALLY COMPATIBLE AND IT
DOESN'T RETAIN THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE HOUSE
AND THE LANDSCAPE, THE
NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE.
SO I DO HAVE THOSE THOSE POINTS
FOR YOU TO CONSIDER WHEN YOU'RE
LOOKING AT THIS APPLICATION AND
THAT'S IT FROM STAFF.
>> THANK YOU.
MISS THATCHER.
OK, WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT AND I'VE GOT
COMMISSIONERS KAPLAN AND ROSS
ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
IS THAT CORRECT?
YEP, YEP, YEP.
CAN WE HAVE YOUR REPORT PLEASE
?
>> SURE.
I CAN START ONE THING THE NOTE
TO MISS THATCHER IS I ACTUALLY
JUST RECEIVED A TEXT FROM
SOMEBODY WHO'S WATCHING AT HOME
AND THEY SAID THERE'S NO VOLUME
.
OH, OK.
I HOPE YOU HEARD THAT SOMEONE
WATCHING AT HOME SAYS THERE'S
NO VOLUME.
>> I HOPE IT'S THAT PERSON'S OR
NOT THE VOLUME THEY'RE
LISTENING DEVICE IT CAN TURN UP
YOUR VOLUME.
WELL, YOU CAN HEAR ME.
THAT'S GOOD FEEDBACK AND IT'S
BEEN NOTED.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THAT.
NO WORRIES.
OK, SORRY ABOUT THAT.
WE'RE GOOD OK SORRY ABOUT THAT
INTERRUPTION.
>> YES.
SO WE DID GO OUT TO THE SITE
AND YOU KNOW OBVIOUSLY KNOWING
THAT TWO OTHER COMMISSIONERS
WENT OUT THERE TO THE SITE THE
PREVIOUS MONTH I THINK WE ALL
PRETTY MUCH UNDERSTAND WHAT'S
GOING ON AND THE STAFF REPORT
DOES A GOOD JOB OF OUTLINING
THE CURRENT CONDITIONS.
SO THE ONE THING YOU KNOW, A
FEW THINGS I GUESS THAT I DID
NOTICE IS WHERE THE APPLICANT
WANTS TO EXTEND THE CONCRETE
RIGHT NOW THERE'S KIND OF LIKE
GRAVEL AND RIGHT.
KIND OF LIKE TIRE RUTS.
SO IT'S PRETTY CLEAR THAT THAT
SPACE HAS BEEN USED WHO KNOWS
FOR HOW LONG BUT HAS BEEN USED
KIND OF INFORMAL FOR PARKING
FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
AND I DID KIND OF ALSO JUST
WALK AROUND THE NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT BLOCK ITSELF AND NOTED
THAT THE MAJORITY OF THE
PROPERTIES HAVE DRIVEWAYS THAT
ARE EITHER KIND OF SIMILAR TO
THIS ONE KIND OF SHORT OR THAT
GOES ALL THE WAY BACK TO LIKE A
GARAGE OR JUST LIKE SIDE KIND
OF YARD PARKING.
YOU KNOW, WE DID HAVE A FEW
QUESTIONS AROUND WILL IF THIS
DRIVEWAY IS EXTENDED, IS IT
POSSIBLE THAT IT COULD
INTERRUPT THE LIKE THE ROOT
BALL OR THE THE ROOTS FROM THE
TREE?
IS THERE GOING TO BE ANY NEED
TO EXCAVATE BECAUSE IT'S IT'S
PRETTY YEAH.
IT'S PRETTY KIND OF UNSTABLE
AND KIND OF LIKE NOT NOT A KIND
OF A STREET KIND OF LIKE SMOOTH
SITUATION WHERE THEY WANT TO
PUT THE DRIVEWAY SO THOSE
QUESTIONS AROUND LIKE IF
THERE'S A NEED TO EXCAVATE OR
REGRADE, IF THERE'S A POTENTIAL
TO IMPACT THE TREES, THE TREE
BUT IT SEEMS KIND OF A PRETTY
KIND OF STRAIGHTFORWARD
ESCALUS.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT YEAH.
>> I'LL JUST ADD FROM MY
RECOLLECTIONS OF THE FIRST GO
AROUND WHEN THESE GUYS PROPOSED
THEY WEREN'T ASKING I MEAN WE
CAN HYPOTHESIZE ABOUT WHAT WILL
END UP HAPPENING WITH WITH
RENTAL TENTS BUT THEY WERE NOT
ASKING TO ADD PARKING ON THIS
DRIVEWAY.
THEY WERE ASKING TO ELONGATE
THE DRIVEWAY FOR THE PURPOSES
OF HAVING A LEVEL SPOT TO PARK
THE ONE CAR THAT ALREADY PARKS
THEIR THEIR STATED INTENT WAS
TO GET TO A PLACE WHERE IT
WOULD BE SAFER TO EXIT THE CAR
WHEN IT'S ICY OR COLD OUTSIDE
WET AND MUDDY AND SLIPPERY TO
GET TO THE HOUSE WITH
GROCERIES, ET CETERA.
WHICH SEEMS SENSIBLE TO ME
BECAUSE THE THE PLACE THAT IS
PAVED RIGHT NOW FOR PARKING IS
ON A PRETTY STEEP INCLINE AND
GETTING IN AND OUT THE CAR
THERE I COULD SEE POSING I
DON'T THINK OF THAT AS A
DESIRABLE PLACE TO PARK A CAR
AND I'M TRYING TO REMEMBER HOW
MANY BEDROOMS IS IN THIS HOUSE.
I THINK IT'S THREE.
>> THAT BEING SAID, IF IT'S A
THREE BEDROOM HOUSE AND WE'VE
GIVEN THEM TO TWO PARKING
SPACES IN THE GARAGE BEHIND
ALREADY FROM THEIR LAST
APPROACH THERE'S REALLY ONLY
ONE OTHER CAR THAT WOULD BE
PARKING ON THE DRIVEWAY.
A LOT OF OUR DISCUSSION IN THE
SECOND SITE VISIT HAD TO DO
WITH THE SAFETY OF THE TREE.
ONE OF THE THING THAT CAME UP
IN CONVERSATION WAS IF
SOMETHING WERE TO BE DONE IN
THAT DRIVEWAY, IF IT WOULDN'T
BE POSSIBLE TO SORT OF REQUIRE
OR ASK FOR THERE TO BE A
CONSTRUCTIVE END POINT TO THE
DRIVEWAY LIKE A LIKE A BERM OR
LIKE YOU HAVE A LITTLE CURBS IN
PARKING LOTS SO THAT IT
COULDN'T EASILY BE DRIVEN PAST
WE I I DON'T KNOW IF I SAID IT
OUT LOUD TO JENNIFER.
I WAS THINKING ABOUT THE IDEA
OF IF IT WAS GOING TO HAPPEN
COULD IT BE PAVERS AS OPPOSED
TO CONCRETE OR AN EXTENSION
OF CONCRETE BECAUSE PAVERS
AND
I'M NOT I'M PRETTY SURE PAVERS
REQUIRE LESS OF A BED YOU DON'T
TO DIG DOWN AS DEEP TO
FACILITATE A BRICK PAPER
DRIVEWAY AS YOU WOULD IF YOU
PUT IN EIGHT INCHES
OF LIMESTONE AND THEN POURED
CONCRETE AT THE TOP OF IT AND
SO EXCAVATING FOR THE PURPOSES
OF A CONCRETE DRIVEWAY COULD
DAMAGE THE ROOT SYSTEM OF A
TREE IF IT HAS SHALLOW ROOTS.
SO THERE WAS A LOT
OF DISCUSSION AROUND THOSE
LINES ON THE SITE VISIT, MOST
OF THEM REVOLVING AROUND WHAT
HAPPENS TO THE TREE.
>> OK, THANK YOU BOTH.
>> WE'LL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT COMMENTS IS THE
APPLICANT HERE OR ON RESUME?
DO YOU SEE
?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT
COMMENT.
WE GOT THE THUMBS UP FROM OUR
AUDIO ENGINEER JUST A SECOND
AGO.
SO I WONDER WHAT'S HAPPENING.
DID HE COME ON?
YEAH, HE CAME OUT AND SAID WE
HAVE VOLUME BUT WE DON'T
APPARENTLY.
>> AND SO WHAT I'M HEARING IS
MY COLLEAGUE CAN HERE ON
CHANNEL SIXTEEN BUT NOT ON ZIM.
>> HMM.
OH OK.
SO THAT'S SO RIGHT.
>> THERE WAS A THUMBS UP FOR
SOMETHING BUT BUT SOMETHING
ELSE IS NOT WORKING SO ANYONE
OUT THERE WATCHING WHO CAN'T
HEAR ME I'M TRI CHANNEL SIXTEEN
OR YOUTUBE.
THERE'S ALSO A YOUTUBE STATION
FOR THE CITY OF BANABA BUT
DON'T GO WITH ZOOM.
>> YOU NEED TO HOLD UP A SIGN
THAT SAYS THAT WE JUST HEARD
YOU SAY THAT EXCEPT FOR THE
PEOPLE ON YOUTUBE THERE'S
SHOULD WE SHOULD WE STOP FOR A
SECOND AND TRY TO FIGURE THIS
OUT SO WE HAVE YOU WANT TO LOG
OUT LOG BACK IN.
THAT'S GOING TO KICK EVERYONE
OUT RIGHT?
YEAH, THAT'S OK.
AND THEY'RE NOT GOING TO KNOW
WHY.
LET'S NOT DO THAT.
CAN YOU TYPE A COMMENT IN THE
MESSAGE IN THE CHIT CHAT?
>> SURE I CAN DO THAT.
YEAH.
LET THEM KNOW TO GET TO YOUTUBE
AND SEARCH C10 AND SO SO
THEREFORE SHOULD WE MOVE ON OR
YOU WANT TO GET THE APPLICANT I
DON'T HAVE A JOB THERE'S NO
THERE'S NO CHAT.
OK SO LET'S SEE LET'S JUST
PAUSE FOR A SECOND WHILE WE
FIGURE THIS OUT BECAUSE I THINK
THIS IS CRITICAL TO HAVE AUDIO
FOR THE ZOOME MEMBERS
ESPECIALLY BECAUSE THAT'S
APPLICANTS AND AND AND OWNERS
IN THAT KIND OF STUFF THERE.
I DON'T SEE AN APPLICANT OR
OWNER FOR THIS PARTICULAR
PETITION IF YOU'D LIKE.
I COULD PROMOTE ONE OF THE
OTHERS AND JUST ASK THEM IF
THEY CAN HEAR US.
>> LET'S DO THAT AS A AS A
BRIEF TROUBLESHOOTING ITEM AND
THEN WE'LL MOVE ON.
>> IF THERE'S NO APPLICANT FOR
THIS ITEM, WE CAN JUST MOVE
BACK TO MY SCREEN.
SO IF YOU'RE OUT THERE IF YOU
CAN HEAR ME, I'M GOING TO
PROMOTE YOU TO SEE IF YOU CAN
HEAR US
AND I'M NOT ABLE TO
PROMOTE HIM, OK HERE I CAN
ALLOW HIM TO TALK AT LEAST.
HEY TIM, ARE YOU THERE AND CAN
YOU HEAR US
?
HE MAY THAT BE I'M NOT THE
PERSON HE'S A PERSON WHO WAS ON
HIM BUT THEN SWITCHED OVER TO
CHANNEL SIXTEEN SO HE MAY NOT
BE ON ZOOM ANYMORE.
>> TIM, CAN YOU HEAR US THE
UNMUTED BUT WE CAN'T HEAR HIM.
>> THIS IS NOT GOOD.
OK, THERE'S A COUPLE OF PEOPLE
IN ZOOME IF YOU CAN HEAR ME
RIGHT NOW I'M GOING TO RESTART
THE ZOO MEETING AND RE LOG IN
THE PODIUM C10 I HOPE THAT
DOESN'T MESS YOU UP BUT I'M NOT
SURE WHAT ELSE TO TRY RIGHT
NOW.
SO WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK.
LET'S TAKE A LITTLE FIVE MINUTE
RECESS.
>> OK SO I'M IN A RECESS OK
SOUNDS THANK YOU.
>> SOUNDS LIKE A PLAN
.
>> HEY SO WE WERE JUST IN THE
MIDDLE OF EIGHTY-EIGHT W
WASHINGS HIS'N AND SO WE'VE
HEARD FROM THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
WE WERE ABOUT TO GET APPLICANT
COMMENTS AND WE REALIZED THAT
THERE'S ACTUALLY NO APPLICANT
AVAILABLE FOR FOR THIS HEARING
SO WE WILL MOVE RIGHT INTO THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION THAT THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS OPEN FOR US WASHINGTON
PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE MADE IN
PERSON OR BY JOINING THE
MEETING USING THE INFORMATION
DISPLAYED ON THE AGENDA.
>> I GUESS WE DON'T HAVE ONE
BECAUSE WE'VE HAD A THOROUGH
CHECK OF OUR ROOM JUST RECENTLY
UNLESS WE THINK THAT THAT
PERSON YEAH, OK, WE'RE GOOD.
>> VERY GOOD.
OK, SO NOW THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION OF THIS APPLICATION IS
NOW CLOSED.
>> IS THE IS THERE ANY
COMMISSIONER WHO WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION?
>> MR. ROSS, I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION.
THAT DATE WAS WASHINGTON
STREET, A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO WIDEN THE DRIVEWAY
FOR MOST WASHINGTON TO TEN FOOT
SIX INCHES.
PAVITT WITH CONCRETE AND EXTEND
THE DRIVEWAY TO FORTY FEET AS
PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP.
THE REST OF THE BUILDING IN THE
SURROUNDING AREA M IS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES, ESPECIALLY THOSE
FOR ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION,
RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE FEATURES
AND PAVED AREAS AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION IN
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS TO NINE
TEN IN THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE IN DISTRICT FOUR
NEIGHBORHOODS SETTING SECOND
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
ROSS AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN.
SO NOW IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
ON THE MOTION SO I'M GOING TO
GO BACK TO WHAT I SAID LAST
MEETING WHICH IS THE RESIDENTS
OF THIS RENTAL PROPERTY ARE
ABLE TO BUY A RESIDENTIAL
PARKING PERMIT THAT ALLOWS THEM
TO PARK ON EITHER SIDE OF THE
STREET.
YOU KNOW, ROUND THE CLOCK FOR
SEVENTY DOLLARS A YEAR.
I DON'T THINK IT'S OUR JOB TO
FIGURE OUT HOW THEY PARK THEIR
TENANTS LIKE THAT.
THAT'S NOT OUR THING.
I HAVE AN ISSUE WITH EXTENDING
A CONCRETE DRIVEWAY INTO THE
ROOT ZONE OF THAT MAPLE TREE.
IT'S A SHALLOW ROOTED TREE.
IT'S GOING TO EVENTUALLY EITHER
KILL THE TREE OR THE TREE ROOTS
ARE GOING TO RUIN THE CONCRETE.
I'D BE OK WITH IT IF IT WERE
JUST GRAVEL.
I THINK THERE'S A GREAT AND IF
YOU LOOK AT A LOT OF THE HOUSES
TO THE EAST OF THAT PROPERTY,
THEY HAVE GRAVEL DRIVEWAYS OR
COMBINATION DIRT GRASS, GRAVEL
DRIVEWAYS ACROSS THE STREET.
THERE'S A GREAT EXAMPLE OF OF A
GRAVEL DRIVEWAY THAT WOULD BE
FINE AND I WOULD THINK
ULTIMATELY COULD BE COMPATIBLE.
BUT I THINK EXTENDING A GIANT
CONCRETE SLAB BACK THERE IS NOT
ESPECIALLY CONSIDERING WE JUST
GRANTED THEM A TWO CAR GARAGE.
IF THAT'S GOING TO BE ENOUGH TO
YOU, THAT'S THAT'S FINE TOO.
BUT BRING IT IN AS AN ADULT AND
NOT AS A GARAGE.
THANK YOU.
>> I HAD A QUESTION FOR STAFF
THAT THERE WAS A CURIOUS WHEN
YOU'RE READING THROUGH THE THE
YOUR SLIDES ONE OF THE
STANDARDS ABOUT REALLY SPECIFIC
TO THIS APPLICATION SAYS THAT
PARKING IT'S APPROPRIATE
FOR
PARKING TO BE BEHIND THE
STRUCTURE AND THAT JUST STRUCK
ME AS I DON'T KNOW LIKE OVERLY
OPTIMISTIC OR SOMETHING.
YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT REALLY LIKE
WELL IT'S NOT POSSIBLE IN THIS
CASE AND IT JUST SEEMS LIKE IN
MOST CASES IT'S THE PARKING
SPOT ACTUALLY BEHIND.
>> BUT DOES IT MEAN ACTUALLY
LIKE IN THE REAR YARD OR DOES
IT MEAN LITERALLY BEHIND THE
STRUCTURE?
>> I THINK THE INTENT IS TO
KEEP IT OUT OF SIGHT IF
POSSIBLE AND NOT KEEP IT AS FAR
BACK AS POSSIBLE.
RIGHT, OK.
BUT I THINK YOU HIT THE NAIL ON
THE HEAD WHEN YOU SAID THAT
THIS IS A CASE BY CASE BASIS
BECAUSE A NARROW CITY LOT AND
NOT NEW PARKING GOING IN BEHIND
A STORE OR SOMETHING SO OK.
YEAH ALL VERY GOOD.
>> DO WE HAVE OTHER DISCUSSION
?
>> JUST ONE THING I WANT TO
THROW OUT.
I MEAN IT'S HARD TO KNOW.
I MEAN WE'RE IN MANY CASES HERE
TRYING TO GUESS HOW THIS IS
GOING TO GET USED BUT AND ALSO
AT DIFFERENT POINTS AS WE'VE
DISCUSSED THIS DRIVEWAY WE'VE
THOUGHT ABOUT IT AS SHOULD WE
ALLOW THEM TO GET MORE PARKING
AND IN THIS CASE THERE IS
PARKING THERE.
WE DON'T HAVE THE OPTION
OF DENYING THEM THE SPOT THAT
THEY CURRENTLY HAVE THAT'S IN
THEIR FRONT YARD IF I KNEW
UNEQUIVOCALLY THAT WE COULD
JUST SAY THE PARKING THAT YOU
HAVE HERE GOES TEN FEET FURTHER
SO IT'S NOT IN THE ROW
OF HOUSES IN VISIBLE AND SO IT
WASN'T JUST A TRADE
OF LOCATIONS I HAVE ABSOLUTELY
NO RESERVATIONS ABOUT
PERMITTING THEM TO GO FURTHER
BACK.
>> IT IS THE PROBLEM THE ONLY
THING THAT GIVES ME PAUSE ABOUT
THIS AND I STILL THINK I'M
LEANING ON SAYING IT WOULD BE
OK IS THAT IT COULD BE ABUSED.
>> THAT'S THE THING I THINK
THAT WE WORRY ABOUT IS WHEN
IT'S A RENTAL AND THE OWNER'S
NOT AROUND I MEAN HE MAY HAVE
THE BEST OF INTENTIONS BUT WE
KNOW WHAT HAPPENS WITH THOSE
AND AND IT WOULD BE HARD TO
ENFORCE THE INTENT OF USE EACH
AND EVERY YEAR AS HE GETS NEW
TENANTS AND THAT'S THE TRICKY
PART.
>> YEAH, I THINK MY CONCERN IS
THE LEAVING IT AS IT IS WITH
THE AND PARKING THAT'S GOING TO
OCCUR MORE OF A RISK TO THE
TREE THAN SOME KIND OF DEFINED
PARKING AND YOU KNOW, IF IT
COULD REALLY BE DEFINED SO YOU
COULDN'T DRIVE UP FARTHER.
YES.
PRESSURES IF YOU YOU CAN ALWAYS
ADD SOMETHING INTO YOUR MOTION
IF YOU WANTED TO APPROVE WHAT
THEY'VE PRESENTED WHICH IS WHAT
YOU'RE CONSIDERING, YOU COULD
SAY IT'S WITH THE ADDITION OF A
ROW OF BUMPER BLOCKS AT THE END
OF THE DRIVEWAY.
YOU KNOW, THAT'S THAT'S PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
WE'VE DONE THAT BEFORE.
SOMETIMES PEOPLE PUT PLANTERS
THERE OR SOMETHING BUT I THINK
BUMPER BLOCKS ARE THE EASIEST
BUT DON'T CHANGE IT TOO MUCH.
>> YOU I ACTUALLY THINK IF THAT
IS LIKE IF THAT'S A CONCERN
OF THE COMMISSIONERS, I THINK
THAT THE TREE ITSELF IS
ACTUALLY THE BUMPER BLOCKS HERE
BECAUSE IF YOU LOOK AT HOW IT'S
DRAWN, THE TREE IS KIND OF OFF
TO THE SIDE ON ALMOST ON THE
PROPERTY LINE.
BUT WHEN YOU'RE THERE THAT TREE
LIKE I WAS STANDING RIGHT ON
THE EDGE OF THE DRIVEWAY TODAY
AND LOOKING BACK AND THE TREE
IS LIKE WITHIN THE DRIVEWAY
ITSELF.
SO IF THEY'RE GOING STRAIGHT
BACK AND THEY'RE SAYING THEY'RE
FIVE FEET FROM THE TREE THAT
TREE IS WITHIN THE WIDTH OF THE
DRIVEWAY AND THEY KNOW NO ONE'S
GOING TO BE IN ORDER TO PARK,
THEY'D HAVE TO I GUESS YOU
COULD ALWAYS DO IT BUT IT WOULD
BE NEAT.
>> BUT THAT'S WHAT I'M SAYING.
I THINK THEY ARE GOING TO DO IT
WHETHER THERE'S A DRIVEWAY.
YOU KNOW, CLEARLY PEOPLE ARE
PARKING THERE.
THEY'RE DOING IT ALL RIGHT.
RIGHT.
AND THEY'RE GETTING AROUND
THAT.
THEY'RE GOING AROUND THE TREE.
THEY'RE GETTING CLOSE TO THE
TREE.
>> RIGHT.
RIGHT.
THIS IS SLIGHTLY BETTER I
BELIEVE BECAUSE IT IS REALLY
DEFINING LIKE THIS IS WHERE THE
CAR SHOULD BE LINING UP AND
YOU'RE REALLY PLACE.
>> YEAH, BUT THEN THE QUESTION
IS CAN YOU DO CONCRETE WITHOUT
DAMAGING A TREE?
>> WELL IF IF CARS HAVE BEEN
PARKING THERE THEN THEY'VE
DAMAGED THE TREE ALREADY
BECAUSE THE WEIGHT OF THE CAR
AND CONSTRUCTION VEHICLES ARE
SMUSHING THE ROOFS AND THE
DAMAGE HAS BEEN DONE I THINK
WITH WITH THAT TREE ALREADY THE
THE THE THE DAMAGE THAT YOU SEE
THERE THAT HAS BEEN DONE WAS
FROM A PREVIOUS CONSTRUCTION
PROJECT.
THE HOUSE HAS GOT IT RIGHT NOW.
THE PREVIOUS OWNERS A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO GOT THE WHOLE
THING.
>> THERE WAS LOTS OF EQUIPMENT
PARKED THERE FOR A WHILE I
HAVEN'T SEEN ANY EVIDENCE THAT
IT WAS EVER USED AS A PARKING
SPACE FORMALLY OR INFORMALLY.
BUT THE CONSTRUCTION STUFF DID
MESS UP DID MESS UP THAT AREA.
>> IT'S JUST IT'S GRAVEL NOW IT
NEEDS TO BE SCRAPED AND PUT
SOME TOPSOIL DOWN AND RESEED IT
AND MAKE IT LANDSCAPING AGAIN
INSTEAD KIND OF THE MUDDY MESS
THAT IS RIGHT NOW WHEN I LOOK
AT LIKE AERIAL PHOTOS IT'S SORT
OF FIFTY FIFTY LIKE HALF THE
AERIALS OR MAYBE MORE THAN HALF
OF THE AERIAL THE ONES THAT ARE
LEGIBLE SEEM TO SHOW LIKE A TWO
TRACK.
THERE'S THE CONCRETE BIT AND
THEN EVEN THE NINETEEN FORTY
SEVEN AERIAL IT'S PRETTY CLEAR
THAT THAT WAS BEING USED I
DON'T KNOW ABOUT FOR PARKING
BUT AS A DRIVE OF SOME SORT
THERE'S A TWO TRACK THERE
THERE'S THE CONCRETE AND
THERE'S THERE'S A TWO TRACK AND
THEN IF YOU GO YOU GO UP TO
TWENTY TWENTY THREE THERE THERE
WAS LIKE ONE WHERE IT LOOKED
LIKE SOMEONE HAD ACTUALLY
PLANTED GRASS THERE AND IT
MAYBE WAS A SHADOW BUT THE TWO
TRACK WASN'T THERE AND THEN ALL
OF THE OTHER ONES DO SHOW A TWO
TRACK AFTER THE CONCRETE.
SO IN MY READING OF THAT THIS
WAS I MEAN IT'D BE NICE IF
THERE WAS A PHOTO WITH THE
SMOKING OF A CAR THERE FROM
FROM NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> BUT IT JUST SEEMS LIKE THIS
WAS USED AS PARKING THROUGHOUT
THE HISTORY OF THIS HOUSE.
SO SO THE WAY I'M READING THAT
IS THAT THIS IS MORE OF A
CHANGE IN MATERIAL THAN A
CHANGE IN USE AND I THINK THAT
I WOULD PREFER OTHER MATERIALS
BUT TO ME CONCRETE IS LIKE THE
WAY I'M JUST READING ALL THIS
INFORMATION IS THAT THIS IS YOU
KNOW, THIS IS MEETING THE
STANDARDS.
IT'S IT'S A CASE BY CASE AND I
UNDERSTAND THE THE OTHER
ARGUMENTS HERE AS WELL THOUGH
SO I DO BELIEVE THIS IS A
TRICKY ONE THAT WAS MORE OF MY
COMMENTS THAN A SUMMARY.
SO IF SOMEONE ELSE WANTS TO
HAVE ANOTHER COMMENT AND THEN
WE CAN VOTE WE'VE KIND OF HEARD
FROM EVERYONE.
>> BUT YOU KNOW, I'LL GIVE
SOMEONE ELSE KIND OF A LAST
WORD.
I AGREE WITH I MEAN I'M A
LITTLE UNCOMFORTABLE WITH
FRANKLY TALKING ABOUT YOUTH.
I THINK WE'RE KIND OF MAYBE
GETTING A LITTLE BIT INTO THE
ZONING, YOU KNOW, SIDE
OF THINGS VERSUS JUST LIKE
LOOKING AT THE EXTENSION THE
ADDITION OF THE CONCRETE AND
MATERIAL.
SO I AGREE WITH YOU, DAVID, ON
ON YOUR KIND OF SUMMARY OF THE
SITUATION.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
>> OK, LET'S GO TO A VOTE THEN
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
YES.
>> YES, YES, YES.
>> ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO NO.
>> OK, LOOKS LIKE THE MOTION
CARRIES YOUR APPLICATION HAS
BEEN APPROVED.
>> PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY
FOR REQUIRED PERMITS BEFORE THE
CITY WITH THE CITY BEFORE
BEGINNING YOUR PROJECT.
OK HOW ARE WE THERE ANY TAX OR
ANYTHING DO WE FEEL LIKE WE'RE
GOOD AT THE MOMENT.
OK I JUST WANTED TO TAKE THAT
MOMENT PAUSE TO FIND OUT DO WE
NEED TO GO BACK AND DO ANYTHING
AGAIN OR DO YOU FEEL LIKE WE'RE
GOOD AND JUST FULL STEAM AHEAD?
YEAH GREAT.
WELL IF THAT'S THE CASE THEN
WE'RE MOVING ON TO NEW BUSINESS
AND IT'S GOING TO BE TOUGH ONE
AND THAT'S TWELVE ON ONE
GARDNER AVENUE, MISS THATCHER,
WHEN YOU'RE READY THE STAFF
REPORT PLEASE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OK, TOIVO ONE GARDINER AVENUE
IS THE ROBERT AND IRMA HADEN
HOUSE.
THIS IS ITS FIRST FORMAL
APPLICATION TO THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
>> THIS DISTRICT WAS ADOPTED BY
CITY COUNCIL IN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE.
I INCLUDED A COMPLETE
DESCRIPTION BECAUSE WE HAVE ONE
AT THE END OF THE STAFF REPORT
OF THE HOUSE AND THE THE A
LITTLE BIT OF THE HISTORY IT'S
LOCATED IN THE NORTHEAST CORNER
GARDNER AVENUE AND WESTMINSTER
PLACED THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO RELOCATE A REAR
DOOR OPENING NEAR THE GARAGE
INTO A NEW EXTERIOR WALL WITH A
DOOR.
THIS IS THIS IS A TWENTY TWENTY
TWO SURVEY PHOTO.
THE AREA IN QUESTION IS THIS
DOORWAY HERE YOU CAN SEE THAT
THE ONE CAR GARAGE HAS A ROOF
THAT ATTACHES TO THE HOUSE BUT
THERE'S A SPACE HERE PROBABLY
FOUR FEET WIDE WHERE THERE'S AN
INSET DOOR RIGHT ALONG HERE.
THIS DARK AREA.
THERE'S ALSO A WINDOW OPENING
HERE.
THE WINDOW IS NOT ORIGINAL.
I DON'T KNOW IF THE OPENING IS
ORIGINAL AND THERE'S ONE MORE
THAT YOU'LL SEE IN A SEC.
THIS IS A CARPORT EXTENSION
THAT WAS ADDED ONTO THE GARAGE
AT SOME POINT.
>> SO HERE YOU CAN SEE WHERE
YOU GO UP TWO STEPS.
THERE'S A WINDOW INTO THE HOUSE
AND THE DOOR YOU WOULD YOU
WOULD TURN RIGHT TO ENTER THE
HOUSE THERE.
THE DOOR IS ALSO NOT AN
ORIGINAL DOOR.
WHAT ABOUT THAT WINDOW THAT
WE'RE LOOKING AT THIS WINDOW?
>> NO, THE ONE THAT'S ON THE
WAY BACK THE STRAIGHT ONE IS IS
OK SO WE'VE GOT ONE OH SORRY.
>> YES.
SO THIS IS
A CASEMENT SIX LIGHT
WINDOW AND THIS IS NOT
ORIGINAL.
YOU CAN SEE THAT IT DOESN'T FIT
IN THE OPENING SO PROBABLY THE
OPENING IS HAS BEEN THERE BUT
THIS WINDOW WAS IT WAS UNFILLED
AT SOME POINT AT THE TOP AND
HERE'S THE DOOR HAS A SCREEN IN
THIS PHOTO.
THIS IS A QUOTE FROM THE INSIDE
THERE'S THAT CASEMENT WITH THE
SIX LIGHTS AND THESE ARE PHOTOS
FROM THE REVIEW COMMITTEE ON
MONDAY.
>> THIS IS NOT A GREAT PICTURE
BUT IT'S PROBABLY THE BEST ONE
OF THE DOOR.
IT'S IT'S GOT A LITTLE YOU
KNOW, A LITTLE FAUX FANLIGHT UP
TOP.
IT'S A IT'S A IT'S A MODERN
VINTAGE DOOR.
LOOKS LIKE THEY'VE STARTED
DOING SOME REFRAMING HERE.
I'M NOT SURE WHAT'S GOING ON
THERE.
IT LOOKS LIKE THEY'VE ALREADY
TAKEN THE CEILING DOWN AND
MAYBE STARTED WORK FOR THIS
DOOR HERE.
>> I'M NOT EXACTLY SURE LOOKS
LIKE SO THIS IS A PRETTY GOOD
WAY TO THINK ABOUT THAT DOOR
OPENING SO HERE'S THE GARAGE
AND THE CARPORT AND YOU ENTER
UP THE STEPS HERE AND YOU GO IN
THE DOOR INTO THE HOUSE HERE
THIS IS WHERE THAT CASEMENT
WINDOW IS AND THEN YOU'VE GOT
MORE HOUSE OH I'M SORRY THIS
THIS IS THE GARAGE HERE BUT
THERE IS THERE IS SOME HOUSE
HERE ATTACHED AS YOU SAW IN
THIS PHOTO, YOU CAN KIND OF SEE
THE GARAGE WALL OVER HERE ON
THE RIGHT.
>> MM HMM.
THE EXISTING ELEVATIONS ARE
SHOWN HERE.
>> THIS IS THIS WHERE A DOORS
PROPOSED TO GO THIS WOULD HAVE
THE EFFECT OF OF CAPTURING THAT
LITTLE SORT OF BREEZEWAY
BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE
GARAGE AND MAKING IT USABLE
SPACE AND ALLOWING THEM TO
EXPAND THE INTERIOR INTO THAT
SPACE THAT THEY WOULD
RECAPTURE.
THERE ARE REALLY NO CHANGES TO
THE SOUTH ELEVATION.
I JUST ON TO SHOW YOU THE
GARAGE AND THE CARPORT HERE.
HERE IS THAT ENTRANCE YOU GO IN
TO THIS LITTLE PORCH AREA, GO
IN THIS DOOR AND THERE ARE TWO
WINDOWS.
I THINK THIS ONE DOES NOT SHOW
AND LOOKS LIKE IT'S INTO THE
BATHROOM AND THEN THIS IS THE
WINDOW INTO THE KITCHEN.
>> SO THE PROPOSAL IS TO MOVE
SOME INTERIOR WALLS, REMOVE
THIS WALL, REMOVE THAT DOOR AND
BASICALLY OPEN UP THIS WHOLE
AREA OF THE KITCHEN.
WE DON'T REALLY CARE WHAT
THEY'RE DOING ON THE INSIDE BUT
IT'S IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND,
YOU KNOW, SINCE THEY PROVIDED
US WITH THIS INFORMATION WHY
THEY WANT TO DO THIS.
AN EGRESS DOOR WOULD BE MOVED
HERE TO THE OPENING BETWEEN THE
GARAGE.
THIS WOULD BE AT THE POINT
WHERE THE CARPORT JOINS THE
GARAGE.
SO IT'S LIKE BACK UP TO THE
PHOTOS.
YEAH.
SO THE DOOR WOULD BE HERE ALONG
THIS THIS LOOKS LIKE IT THERE'S
A THERE'S A GUTTER THERE.
THERE'S A DOWNSPOUT THERE.
IT WOULD STILL BE BEHIND THE
CARPORT BUT IT WOULD BE FLUSH
WITH THE FRONT WALL OF THE
GARAGE.
>> THE PROPOSAL IS TO REUSE
SOME OF THESE EXISTING SHINGLES
AND TO INFILL THE AREA AROUND
THE DOOR.
YOU WOULDN'T NEED VERY MANY
OF THEM BUT THE CONTRACTOR SAID
THAT HE WOULD SAVE SOME
OF THOSE.
>> MM
.
>> LET'S SEE.
AND HERE'S WHERE THE PROPOSED
DOOR WOULD GO.
IT IS IT IS A MODERN DESIGN THE
DOOR IT'S IT'S IT'S A LITTLE
BIT CONFUSING.
THE DESCRIPTION SAYS THAT IT'S
A WALL NOT GREEN FIBERGLASS
DOOR THAT'S BEING STAINED.
I'M NOT SURE HOW YOU STAIN
FIBERGLASS.
IT'S POSSIBLE THAT IT'S CLAD
BUT JUST GIVE ME ONE SECOND.
YOU CAN COME UP AND TELL US
ABOUT THE DOOR.
BUT IT'S VERY SIMPLE.
YOU KNOW WHAT HAS THIS VERTICAL
STRIPE HERE ELEMENT ON IT WHICH
MAKES IT MORE MODERN LOOKING
BUT IT'S IT'S IT'S NOT IT
WOULDN'T BE CONFUSED FOR A
PERIOD OR BY ANY STRETCH OF THE
IMAGINATION FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS THAT BEST
APPLY.
NO ONE SAYS PROPERTY WILL BE
USED AS IT WAS HISTORICALLY OR
BE GIVEN A NEW USE.
IT REQUIRES MINIMAL CHANGE TO
ITS DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS,
FEATURE SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS, FEATURES FINISHES
AND CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES OR
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED.
I'VE ALREADY READ NO.
NINE TO FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR GUIDELINES.
THE GUIDELINES FOR
ACCESSIBILITY RECOMMEND
DESIGNING NEW OR ADDITIONAL
MEANS OF ACCESS THAT ARE
COMPATIBLE THE HISTORIC
BUILDING AND ITS SETTING FOR
ENTRANCES AND PORCHES.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
INSTALL ADDITIONAL ENTRANCES OR
PORCHES REQUIRED FOR THE NEW
USE IN A MANNER THAT PRESERVES
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING LIMITING SUCH
ALTERATIONS TO NON CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATIONS FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL
PORCHES IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
INSTALL A NEW PORCH.
AN ENTRANCE ON SECONDARY
ELEVATIONS MAY BE APPROPRIATE
IF IT DOES NOT DIMINISH THE
BUILDING'S ARCHITECTURAL
CHARACTER AND THE DESIGN
OF MATERIALS ARE COMPATIBLE
WITH THE BUILDING AND THE SITE.
SO LET ME GET BACK UP HERE.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF COMMENTS I
THINK
SO IN THE HEYDEN HOUSE
REPORT THAT WAS PUT TOGETHER BY
THE STUDY COMMITTEE.
IT DOES SPECIFY THAT THE HOUSE,
THE GARAGE AND THE CARPORT ARE
ALL CONTRIBUTING HISTORIC
FEATURES OF THIS SITE AS WELL
AS SOME OF THE LANDSCAPING AND
THAT'S SOMETHING ELSE THAT'S
THAT'S SOMETHING ELSE I NEED TO
HAVE A CONVERSATION WITH BUT
NOT TONIGHT WITH THE OWNERS AND
THE CONTRACTOR.
BUT ONCE THE WORK GOT STARTED
WITHOUT HGC APPROVAL AND SO
THEY STOPPED WORK AND I'VE BEEN
TALKING TO THE CONTRACTOR ABOUT
SOME OTHER THINGS THAT ARE
GOING ON.
THEY HAD TO DO SOME DEMO OF THE
PATIO IN THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
TO GET TO SOME SEWER LINE THAT
HAD COLLAPSED AND NOW THEY'RE
WORKING ON PUTTING THAT BACK
TOGETHER.
BUT REALLY WE'RE JUST WE'RE
JUST TALKING ABOUT THE DOOR
HERE TONIGHT.
IT'S IT'S A CHANGE.
YOU KNOW, THIS WOULD CERTAINLY
CHANGE THE CHARACTER OF THAT
SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THE QUESTION IS JUST WHETHER
THIS IS A CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURE AS IT IS NOW AS AN
INSET.
IT WOULD MAKE IT A LOT MORE
EFFICIENT ON THE INSIDE OF THE
HOUSE HERE.
IT'S A IT'S IT'S A BUT IT WOULD
ALSO HAVE DEFINITELY A PHYSICAL
VISIBLE IMPACT ON THE EXTERIOR
OF THE HOUSE.
>> SO I URGE YOU TO CONSIDER
THE STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES
WHEN DISCUSSING THIS
APPLICATION AND I THINK THAT'S
IT FOR STAFF.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, MISS THATCHER.
WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT SO
WE'LL HEAR FROM COMMISSIONERS
CAPLAN AND ROS.
SO WE WERE THERE ON SITE
EARLIER IN THE AND YOU KNOW,
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT THAT
BECOMES INSTANTLY OBVIOUS IS
THAT THE AREA THEY'RE TALKING
ABOUT IS IS RECESSED AND IN
SHADOW FROM ALMOST EVERY ANGLE
TO TO SEE THIS OR TO HAVE IT
AFFECT YOU AS A AS A VISITING
PERSON PASSING BY YOU'D HAVE TO
BE TRESPASSING THE THE DOOR
THAT THEY'RE SUGGESTING TO
REPLACE IT WITH AS A KIND SORT
OF A JUST A DARKER SHADED THING
DOESN'T SEEM TO ME AT LEAST TO
BE TOO DISSIMILAR FROM THE
SHADOW OF THE CAVITY THAT SITS
THERE NOW BETWEEN THE STRUCTURE
OF THE GARAGE AND THE STRUCTURE
OF THE HOUSE.
>> SO IT'S NOT IT'S NOT
REPLACING AN EXISTING DOOR IN
THAT PLACE.
IT'S REPLACING EMPTY SPACE THAT
TO ME WHEN I WALKED UP TO IT I
READ AS JUST SORT OF SHADOW
THERE WAS A DARK RECTANGLE IN
THAT SPOT AND THERE WILL BE IF
THEY PUT THIS DOOR IN A DARK
RECTANGLE IN THAT SPOT.
THANK YOU.
AND I GUESS I WOULD JUST KIND
OF I GUESS RESTATE STAFF'S
POINT ABOUT THE FACT THAT
THAT
IF IF THIS APPLICATION THIS
PROPOSAL WILL YOU KNOW, GUESS
WE ALL KNOW THIS ESSENTIALLY
TRANSFORM WHAT IS A PORCH SLASH
KIND OF OPEN BREEZEWAY INTO
WELL IT REMOVES THAT SO IT'S
REMOVING SPACE THAT WAS THERE
HISTORICALLY AND DURING THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE AND
BECAUSE THIS IS A SINGLE
BUILDING HISTORIC DISTRICT, I
THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
JUST TO REALLY THINK ABOUT THAT
VERSUS JUST LIKE A CONTRIBUTING
BUILDING BUILDING IN A WIDER
DISTRICT.
SO I THINK THAT THERE'S MORE
IMPORTANCE ON THOSE CHARACTER
TO FIND THE FEATURES OF THIS
PARTICULAR PROPERTY BECAUSE IT
IS A SINGLE PROPERTY DISTRICT.
SO JUST A DATA POINT TO THINK
ABOUT.
THANK YOU.
IS THE PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE
DIFFERENT THAN THE PERIOD?
>> OK, I'M NOT GOING TO ASK YOU
WHAT IT IS BUT I JUST JUST SO
WE KNOW IT'S IT'S A DIFFERENT
PERIOD IS DIFFERENT THAN EVERY
OTHER HISTORIC DISTRICT.
>> IT'S THE TIME PERIOD THAT
THE HADEN'S LIVED IN THE HOUSE
WHICH IS IT'S NINETEEN EIGHTEEN
LOOK THAT'S WHAT I WANT TO END
THAT IT ENDS AT NINETEEN EIGHTY
NINETEEN.
>> YEAH SO YEAH YEAH.
SO JUST EVERYONE KEEP THAT IN
MIND TOO.
WE'RE DEALING A DIFFERENT TIME
FRAME HERE IN THIS THIS VERY
UNIQUE CASE.
>> OK WE HAVE APPLICANT
COMMENTS NOW WITH THE APPLICANT
PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD AND YOU HAVE UP
TO FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK PLEASE
COME FORWARD YOU HAVE FIVE
MINUTES TO SPEAK AND JUST
YOU'VE HEARD FROM THE STAFF
REPORT AND THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT SO YOU CAN COMMENT ON
BOTH OF THOSE AND THEN JUST
WHATEVER COMMENTS YOU ALSO MAY
HAVE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER, MAY I PROVIDE
REQUESTED MATERIAL FROM
DUNLAVEY VISIT?
YES, PLEASE.
ENJOY THE SORRY LOT OF THINKING
,LOTS OF PAPERWORK.
THANK YOU.
APOLOGIES I KEPT ONE FROM THE
SITE SO I'M GOOD THANKS THANKS
TO YOU PLEASE.
OK SO I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
QUICK COMMENT ABOUT THE DOOR
FIRST BECAUSE THEN MODERN DOOR
MAY HAVE BEEN AN EYESORE OR YOU
KNOW IT MAY HAVE NOT REALLY
REFLECT THE HISTORIC
SIGNIFICANCE I WOULD LIKE TO
JUST MAKE A QUICK COMMENT A
CLARIFICATION THAT WE ARE GOING
TO USE THE ORIGINAL DOOR
WHETHER THAT IS YOU KNOW, IT
WAS INTO, YOU KNOW, THE
HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE WHICH IS
UNTIL NINETEEN EIGHTY OR NOT.
BUT OUR PLAN IS TO USE THE
ORIGINAL DOOR THAT IS IN PLACE
.
SO I WANT TO MAKE IT VERY CLEAR
THAT WE ARE NOT PROPOSING A NEW
MODERN LOOKING DOOR BUT WE ARE
ACTUALLY USING REUSING THE DOOR
THAT IS THERE.
SO I'M GOING BACK TO
COMMISSIONER A COUPLE
OF POINTS.
SO WE ALSO AGREE THAT WHETHER
THE DOOR IS OR PLACED EXACTLY
WHERE IT IS PLACED NOW OR
REMOVING IT PROBABLY PASSER BY
WOULDN'T REALLY NOTICE BECAUSE
REALLY IN THE SHADOW AREA
HOWEVER, WE STILL WOULD LIKE TO
RESPECT THE HISTORIC
SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS DOOR.
SO THAT'S JUST ONE COMMENT ALSO
DURING THE MONDAY SITE VISIT WE
WERE ALSO COMMISSIONERS'
REQUESTED HOW WITH THIS THERE
WERE SOME CONCERNS ABOUT THE
DOWNSPOUT AND THE CONDITIONS
OF THIS YOU KNOW, THE GUTTER
SYSTEM AND INSPECTION REPORT
INDEED MENTIONED THAT THERE IS
A LOT OUR SYSTEM ESPECIALLY IN
THE EAST SIDE OF THE HOUSE
NEEDS REPAIR SO WE ARE DOING
THOSE THINGS TO RESTORE THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS HOUSE THAT
EXACTLY MATCHES HOW IT
CURRENTLY LOOKS LIKE.
THE ONLY THING THAT WE ARE
PROPOSING THING IS THE ONLY
THING THAT WE DISCUSS WITH THE
COMMISSIONER.
IF YOU SEE THE PAGE THREE
OF THE READING MATERIAL HERE,
YOU CAN SEE THE SPECIFIC DESIGN
HOW WE WOULD LIKE TO INSTALL
THAT OUR SYSTEM OR SIMILAR TO
OUT TO ROUND WATER AWAY FROM
THE DOOR WHICH IS ACTUALLY
QUITE IMPORTANT TO KEEP A HOUSE
AWAY FROM WATER DAMAGES OR
PREVENT DAMAGES BECAUSE ON ITS
OWN BECAUSE MAYBE PERHAPS ALL I
WOULD LIKE TO PROPOSE THAT THE
COMMISSIONERS ALSO TAKE A LOOK
AT THE CURRENT PICTURE WHICH IS
FIGURE ONE.
IT'S IT SAYS YOU E PEST OR PEST
ONE IF YOU LOOK AT THE PICTURE
THEN YOU CAN SEE QUICKLY THAT
IF YOU KNOW SNOWS A LOT OR
RAINS A LOT THEN IT REALLY IS
SUBJECT TO WATER DAMAGES
CURRENTLY.
SO WE ARE GOING TO INSTALL AN
AWNING SO THAT WE PREVENT
FURTHER WATER DAMAGES AND ALSO
RESTORE AND REPLACE ALL OUR
CURRENT SYSTEM THAT IS DAMAGED
OR NEEDS REPAIR.
I UNDERSTAND THAT BERNARD WHO
IS WORKING TIRELESSLY ON THE
HOUSE IS ALSO JOINING THE VIEW.
SO IF I'M NOT I'M NOT ARCHITECT
BUT I REALLY RESPECT THE
HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS
HOUSE.
SO IF YOU HAVE ANY TECHNICAL
QUESTION I WOULD LIKE TO
WELCOME THAT YOU REFER THIS
QUESTION TO BERNARD WHO REALLY
DOES KNOW EVERYTHING.
I DON'T WANT TO GO INTO DETAILS
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO EMPHASIZE
GREAT.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
DO YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS ON
THIS APPLICATION OR COULD YOU
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS THE
RECORD PLEASE AND THEN LET US
KNOW IF YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS?
>> YES.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO ADDRESS
AGAIN?
I'M GOING TO OH WHAT ABOUT YOU?
CAN YOU GUYS HEAR ME OK?
YES WE CAN HEAR YOU.
OK, THIS IS BERNARD SHAW.
I'M NOT SURE IF YOU NEED MY
PERSONAL ADDRESS BUT I'M
WORKING ON ON ONE GARDENER IN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
THE REMODEL PROJECT OVER THERE
I HOPE YOU GUYS ARE ALL DOING
WELL.
IT'S ACTUALLY KIND OF COOL TO
LISTEN TO ALL THE HISTORY
OF THE LAST FEW HOUSES THAT YOU
GUYS JUST HAD WONDERFUL I LOVE
IT FOR MY CITY BEING IN ALBANY
SO ANYWAY WAS SAYING ALSO YOU
DID A GREAT JOB.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY A FEW
THINGS ABOUT THE ORNING.
WE WILL PUT THAT IN THE
APPLICATION PROCESS THAT YOU
GUYS EVEN HAD.
YOU HAD BROUGHT UP THE WATER
AND YOU GUYS I JUST WANT TO
GIVE YOU GUYS KIND OF A ROUGH
DRAWING AND STUFF FOR HER AND
THERE COULD BE ANY OPTION THAT
YOU GUYS WANT TO WEAR A VISIBLE
TO ANYTHING FOR THAT.
I JUST WANTED TO GIVE YOU GUYS
SOMETHING THAT I WILL TO DEAL
WITH YOU GUYS COMMISSIONERS.
I'LL PUT THROUGH THE PROPER
CHANNELS THIS OK IN REGARDS TO
THE DOOR AGAIN THAT'S JUST THE
BUILDING INTERIOR WHEN WE WERE
MOVING THE BALL THROUGH THE
CITY WE APPLIED FOR THAT
PERMANENTLY REFINEMENT REMOVING
THAT WALL.
THE IDEA WAS KIND OF GIVE US
MORE SPACE IN THE KITCHEN AND
THEN REWORK THAT DOOR TO
BASICALLY MAX THE HOUSE WITH
THE CEDAR SHAKE AND REUSE ALL
OF THAT WHICH KIND STILL KEEPS
THAT HISTORIC FEEL TO IT.
IT ALMOST BE LIKE LIKE YOU GUYS
SAY THAT SHADOW THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THAT I YOU'D BE HARD TO
TELL I GUESS FROM THE FROM THE
ROAD OR EVEN WALKING YOU'D BE
HARD TO TELL THAT THAT DOOR WAS
EVER EVEN MOVED OTHER THAN THAT
LITTLE BREEZEWAY I UNDERSTAND
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THAT TO
THAT IN THE STYLE OF THE YEARS
HOW THEY HAVE THOSE WALLS
QUICKPARTS INTO HOUSES OTHER
THAN THAT I MEAN IT'S I THINK
IT'S AND YOU KNOW, AGAIN FOR
THE GUYS THAT WHEN I TALKED TO
JILL SEVERAL TIMES WHICH THEY
FEEL FOR ALL THE PHONE CALLS
YOU TOOK FROM ME, I REALLY
APPRECIATE THAT AND ALL THAT
HELP AND EDUCATION THAT YOU
GAVE ME WITHIN THIS.
SO THAT WAS A THANK YOU FOR
THAT WHEN THEY STARTED DOING IT
I WASN'T EVEN AWARE THAT.
SO I IMMEDIATELY WHEN I HEARD
ABOUT IT I DID HOLD THAT.
I WANT TO APOLOGIZE FOR THAT
MISCOMMUNICATION TO MY GUYS AND
I WILL TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR
THAT.
THOSE CDH AND LOOK BACK AT ANY
GIVEN POINT THAT'S NOT A VERY
HARD TASK.
WE ARE VERY ARTISTIC IN WHAT WE
DO AS WELL.
SO SO WHEN WE BLEND SOMETHING
INTO BRINGING HISTORY BACK TO
LIFE EVEN WITH A SLIGHT CHANGE,
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT I THINK
WE'RE VERY, VERY TALENTED.
SO AND ME PERSONALLY I BEING AN
ARTIST CAN LOOK AT THOSE THINGS
OTHER THAN YOU KNOW, ANYTHING
YOU WANT OR SUGGESTIONS YOU MAY
HAVE THAT AS WELL.
SO PLEASE ANYTHING GUYS.
>> THAT'S ALL I HAVE UNLESS YOU
HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR ME.
OK, THANKS BERNARD.
HOLD TIGHT.
WE PROBABLY WILL HAVE SOME
QUESTIONS SO LET'S LET'S JUST
SEE IF THE COMMISSIONER HAVE
SOME QUESTIONS AND AND I THINK
THAT THAT'S WHAT WE'LL LET'S
SEE.
>> YEAH.
SO DO ANY COMMISSIONERS HAVE
ANY QUESTIONS.
>> GREAT.
SO A DOOR THAT WAS THERE WAS A
PICTURE OF A MODERN DOOR THAT
WAS INCLUDED IN THE INITIAL
PACKET AND YOU'RE SAYING THAT
THAT IS NOT THE DOOR THAT YOU'D
BE USING BUT RATHER YOU'D BE
REUSING THE EXISTING DOOR WHEN
YOU SAY EXISTING DOOR, IS THAT
THE HALF FANLIGHT DOOR THAT WAS
GOING IT?
>> OK, SO THAT'S THE DOOR THAT
YOU DIDN'T PUT.
OK, THAT'S ALL I WANT TO SO
THERE WAS A WINDOW WINDOW NOT
SHOWN ON THE BATHROOM.
>> WHAT WOULD THAT BE?
CAT SO IT LOOKS LIKE WILL BE A
DOOR STORE WINDOW THAT WILL BE
CLOSED WITH THE NEW WALL AND
THAT WAS THAT WHEN WE AS
COMMISSIONER WERE MENTIONED I
DON'T BELIEVE THAT THAT WINDOW
IS BELONGS TO THE HISTORIC
SIGNIFICANCE PERIOD.
IT SEEMS LIKE IT'S A MODERN
WINDOW.
>> HOWEVER, IF THAT IS AN
IMPORTANT CONSIDERATION WE CAN
ALSO KEEP THE WINDOW.
THANK YOU FOR ASKING THAT AMONG
OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT HERE.
I THINK I MIGHT HAVE A FEW BUT
I WAS WONDERING IF IF ANYONE
DID OK, ONE QUESTION I HAVE IS
THE IF YOU LOOK AT THE THE THE
LEVEL LIKE A FLOOR LEVEL OF THE
KITCHEN, YOU STEP DOWN INTO
THAT BREEZEWAY RIGHT NOW AND
THEN YOU STEP DOWN AGAIN TO GET
TO THE DRIVEWAY.
SO THAT'S TWO RISERS.
SO WHAT WHAT'S THE PROPOSAL FOR
WHEN YOU OPEN THAT NEW DOOR AND
YOU'RE GOING OUTSIDE, WHAT DO
YOU THAT'S TWO STEPS THERE'S
GOT TO BE SOMETHING THERE.
SO WHAT ARE YOU PROPOSING
THAT'S OUTSIDE OF THAT DOOR?
>> THANK YOU FOR ASKING THIS.
WE WERE ALSO WONDERING THE SAME
QUESTION.
OK, CURRENTLY THE STEP IS TWO
STEPS TOGETHER IS ABOUT SIX
INCHES HIGH WHICH IS VERY HIGH
TO JUST MAKE A STEP.
SO PERHAPS WE ARE ALSO WE ARE
NEWBIE WE HAVEN'T OWNED ANY
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
WE WOULD LIKE TO PRESERVE THE
BEAUTY OF THE HOUSE IN WAYS
THAT SEEM TO BE CONSISTENT WITH
THE STANDARD.
SO YOU SITTING IN THE ROOM I
LEARNED A LOT TOO.
SO IF THERE ARE ANY SUGGESTIONS
REGARDING YOU KNOW, OK, KEEPING
THE SAME LEVEL SEEMS FINE.
HOWEVER, HOW ARE YOU GOING
MAYBE IT COULD BE A RAMP
INSTALLATION IF THAT SEEMS
CONSISTENT WITH THE SAFETY OR
GUIDELINE OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT HOUSE OR NOT.
>> WE WOULD LOVE TO HEAR YOUR
SUGGEST.
WE ARE HERE TO LEARN YOUR
SUGGESTION.
YOU DON'T REALLY HAVE A
I'LL
STOP YOU RIGHT THERE.
UNFORTUNATELY WE'RE NOT A GOOD
DESIGN BOARD LIKE THAT.
WE CAN'T DESIGN THE PROJECT FOR
YOU.
YOU HAVE TO PROPOSE SOMETHING
TO US BUT WE WILL WORK WITH YOU
LIKE THAT'S WHAT THE CITY STAFF
IS THERE FOR.
SO BEFORE THE APPLICATION IS
PROPOSED THAT SHOULD BE WORKED
OUT WITH THE CITY.
LIKE IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS LIKE
THAT, JILL WILL BE VERY HELPFUL
MAKING SURE WHAT YOU HAVE IS
MEETING THE STANDARD SO I GUESS
AT THIS POINT WE'LL JUST WORK
WITH WHAT'S WITH WHAT'S HERE IN
THE APPLICATION.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
>> YOU KNOW LET'S LET'S MOVE ON
NOW FROM THE APPLICANT
QUESTIONS TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
OK, SO SON AND DAUGHTER HOLD ON
ONE SEC.
YOU CAN ACTUALLY SIT DOWN AND
WE MIGHT CALL YOU BACK UP.
BUT FOR NOW, PLEASE SIT DOWN.
>> WE'LL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS APPLICATION AT
TWELVE ONE GARDNER AVENUE.
SO PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM
IF SOMEONE'S HERE FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT OR HIT STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE AND WE HAD SOMEONE
MAYBE BUT NOW WE DON'T THINK WE
HAVE SOMEONE FOR THIS SO OK, IF
NO ONE'S THERE AND NO ONE'S
HERE THEN WE WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC COMMENT, OK?
>> IN THAT CASE WE WILL MOVE ON
TO COMMISSIONER MAKING A
MOTION.
IS THERE ANY COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO PROMOTION
OTHERWISE?
I MOVE THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF A PRONENESS
APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT TWELVER ONE
GARDENER AVENUE A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE ROBERT ANAMUR
HAYDEN HOUSE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO RELOCATE A REAR DOOR OPEN
NEAR THE GARAGE INTO THE NEW
EXTERIOR WALL WITH A NEW DOOR.
THE PROPOSED WORK IS COMPATIBLE
AN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT,
TEXTURE AND RELATIONSHIP THE
REST OF THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
FOR REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS TO FIVE
AND NINE AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ACCESSIBILITY AND ENTRIES AND
PORCHES AS WELL AS THE INTERIOR
HISTORIC DESIGN GUIDELINES
PARTICULARLY AS THEY PERTAIN TO
RESIDENTIAL PORCHES.
>> WE HAVE A MOTION DO WE HAVE
A SECOND?
OK, THAT'S MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
KAPLAN SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
SMITH.
>> SO DO WE HAVE DISCUSSION
HERE, MISS THATCHER?
>> SO THE HOMEOWNER PASSED OUT
DRAWINGS THAT ARE DIFFERENT
FROM WHAT YOU'RE CONSIDERING
HERE?
WELL, SO I THINK STEP ONE IS
FOR YOU GUYS TO DECIDE IF YOU
WANT TO CONSIDER.
I THINK WHAT I HEARD FROM
BERNARD WAS THAT THIS IS A
HEADS UP OF WHAT'S COMING OK?
HE WANTS US TO KNOW THAT
THEY'RE THINKING ABOUT THE
DRAINAGE ISSUE FROM THE ROOF
DOWN TO THE GROUND AND THIS IS
A POSSIBLE SOLUTION.
IT SOUNDED TO ME LIKE THIS WAS
NOT PART OF THE APPLICATION.
IS THAT WHAT YOU GUYS HEARD AS
WELL?
YEAH.
YEAH, I I UNINTENTIONALLY AS A
JUST AS A SIDELINE CURIOSITY
WHEN YOU WERE ON SITE I LOOKED
UP AND SAW JUST A ROOFLINE THAT
LOOKED LIKE A FUNNEL AND I SAID
WHAT DO YOU DO ABOUT WATER BUT
IT WASN'T RIGHT.
I DID CLARIFY THAT IT HAD
NOTHING TO DO WITH THE
APPLICATION OR WHAT WE WERE
DECIDING OVER.
>> VERY GOOD.
THAT'S GOOD THAT WE GOT THAT
OUT THE WAY.
NOW THAT BEING SAID, YOU KNOW,
FEEL FREE TO COMMENT ON WHAT
YOU SEE HERE BECAUSE THAT MIGHT
BE COMING NEXT.
AND SO ANY ANY COMMENTS THAT
YOU CAN GET OUT THERE BUT IT SO
THIS MIGHT BE A LITTLE TRICKY
WHEN IT COMES.
WHAT WHAT WAS THE THE WORDING
IN THE MOTION?
DID IT SAY JUST AS PROPOSED OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT TO DO WE
NEED TO BE REALLY CAREFUL ABOUT
WHAT WE'RE WHAT THE NEW
INFORMATION IS VERSUS WHAT'S IN
THE APPLICATION.
>> IS THIS PART OF THE
APPLICATION RIGHT NOW?
THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
WE NEED TO BE JUST REAL FOR ME
IT WASN'T BUT I IT'S NOT OK.
OK, THIS IS JUST AN F WHY
OF WHAT MIGHT BE COMING IN A
NEXT APPLICATION.
>> VERY GOOD AND SOMEWHAT WHAT
WAS THIS SHE OH CAN YOU COME
BACK AND EXPLAIN THAT I MEANT
TO ASK YOU WHEN YOU WERE UP
HERE IS THIS SOMETHING WE JUST
WANTED TO PROVIDE THE MOST
HISTORICAL AREA VIEW OR THE
SNAPSHOT OF THE HOUSE HOW IT
LOOKED LIKE AFTER NINETEEN
EIGHTY WHICH IS AFTER THE
HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE BEFORE
TWENTY TWENTY THREE?
WELL FOR JUST UPLOAD SOME
PHOTOS OK CLEAR.
ALL RIGHT THANK YOU.
OK ANYTHING ELSE MISS THATCHER
THAT'S ON YOUR MIND.
>> OK ONE COMMENT ABOUT THE THE
NEXT THING WOULD MAYBE BE TO
INCLUDE THE STEPS AND WHAT THAT
WHOLE INTEREST WAY IS GOING TO
LOOK LIKE WITH THE AWNING IN
THE STEPS.
>> THIS IS A GOOD POINT BECAUSE
THERE IS A FEW LINES ON THE
DRAWING LIKE THERE'S A STEP
THERE OR SOMETHING BUT THERE'S
NO MATERIAL CALLED OUT AND IT'S
HARD TO APPROVE A DOOR THAT'S
SIX INCHES OFF THE GROUND IF WE
DON'T KNOW WHAT IS STEPPING
DOWN TO BECAUSE THAT'S CRITICAL
TO THE ENTIRE DESIGN.
>> DON'T BE ALARMED WHEN I SAY
THIS BUT I STAFF APPROVE STEPS
ALL THE TIME.
YEAH, OK, SO THAT'S YEAH THIS
IS TRUE SO SO A SOMETHING LIKE
THAT ESPECIALLY IT SAYS
EGRESSED DOOR ON THE DROP RIGHT
WHAT'S THAT.
>> I MEAN IT WOULD BE THE
CODE YOU CAN'T YOU CAN'T NOT
HAVE A STAFF MEMBER SO YEAH
YEAH I MEAN THE CODE IF THIS IS
AN EGRESS DOOR THEN YOU NEED A
THREE FOOT DEEP STEP NOW IT
SAYS EGRESSED DOOR ON DRAWINGS
BUT I DON'T KNOW IF FOR THIS
HOUSE IF THIS DOOR IS
TECHNICALLY AS THE CODE CALLS
IT IN EGRESSED SO YOU DON'T
HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT THAT RIGHT
NOW BECAUSE IT'S NOT THE
APPLICATION UNLESS UNLESS
THAT'S A SINK OR SWIM ISSUE FOR
YOU THAT I'M JUST JUST THINKING
ABOUT IT.
>> IT'S POSSIBLE THAT HOW THAT
LOOKS COULD AFFECT SOMEONE'S
THINKING OF WHETHER OR NOT THIS
IS APPROPRIATE.
>> WELL, AND I I GUESS WE DON'T
KNOW HOW THIS IS GOING TO LOOK
FROM WHAT WE'VE BEEN GIVEN.
RIGHT.
WE DON'T KNOW HOW THAT DOOR IS
GOING TO LOOK.
>> I MEAN I THINK YOU CAN
IMAGINE PRETTY WELL RIGHT.
AND AND WHAT WE'VE HEARD ABOUT
MOVING THE THE SHINGLES IS THAT
THIS NEW CHANGED ENTRANCE IS
GOING TO LOOK LIKE IT WAS
ALWAYS THERE.
OH, IT'S GOING TO LOOK LIKE IT
WAS THE HISTORIC OPENING,
RIGHT?
YEAH.
THEY'RE GOING TO MOVE THE
SHINGLES OVER.
>> SO YOU KNOW, THAT'S NOT WHAT
WE WANT.
>> I THINK MAYBE THEY
MISCONSTRUED OUR CONCERN ABOUT
THE DARK DOOR THAT THAT
ACTUALLY WOULD BE A WAY TO THE
OWNER THE HOMEOWNER IS VERY
AMENABLE TO EITHER DOOR I THINK
SO IF THAT'S YOUR ISSUE, IF
IT'S THE WRONG DOOR, THEY'LL BE
FINE WITH EITHER DOOR.
I THINK THAT'S CLEAR FROM
THERE.
>> I THINK WELL AND THAT'S WHY
I GET I'M NOT REALLY SURE I
UNDERSTAND HOW THIS IS GOING TO
LOOK.
I MEAN I UNDERSTAND THE PLANE
THE DOOR IS GOING TO BE IN
UTAH.
>> THEY'RE GONNA HAVE TO BE BUT
IT NEEDS TO LOOK LIKE IT'S A
CHANGE THAT IT'S NOT PART
OF THE ORIGINAL HOUSE BECAUSE
IT'S NOT THAT'S NOT HOW THE
HOUSE WAS ORIGINALLY BUILT.
SO IT NEEDS TO LOOK LIKE IT WAS
A CHANGE OR THAT IT'S NEW
.
I I AGREE WITH WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING 100 PERCENT.
I THINK THAT THIS IS A VERY
TRICKY APPLICATION FOR FOR A
LOT OF REASONS.
ONE, IT'S THIS SINGULAR
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND WE DON'T
HAVE EXPERIENCE WITH THAT THIS
THE FIRST APPLICATION OF THIS
THIS SYSTEM.
>> YEAH.
AND SO SO FOR THAT REASON IT'S
NEW.
I THINK ANOTHER REASON THAT
MAKES IT TRICKY IS THAT THIS IS
ON A FRONT FACING ELEVATION.
IT'S A CHANGE ON A ELEVATION
THAT FACES THE STREET.
HOWEVER, IT'S LIKE THE
SECONDARY ELEVATION OF THOSE
TWO ELEVATIONS.
SO THAT'S THAT'S IN A WAY SORT
OF CONFLICTING ITEMS AND I
WOULD SAY THAT FOR ME THE I
THINK THIS WILL LOOK QUITE
DIFFERENT.
I THINK TO ME A VOID IS A THING
LIKE JUST BECAUSE THERE'S
NOTHING THERE YOU MIGHT GET
CONFUSED INTO THINKING IT'S
NOTHING BUT IT'S A VOID WHICH
IS SOMETHING YOU KNOW, YOU READ
IT AS A VOID AND REALLY WHEN
YOU SEE THAT HOUSE YOU SEE
HOUSE YOU SEE VOID AND THEN YOU
KIND OF A GARAGE CARPORT THING
IF YOU PUT A DOOR THERE NOW YOU
DON'T HAVE THAT VOID AND IT'S
GOING TO LOOK VERY DIFFERENT.
IS IT DIFFERENT ENOUGH AND
IMPORTANT ENOUGH CHANGE TO
DESTROY THE CHARACTER DEFINING
SIGNIFICANCE OF THAT LITTLE
PORTION OF THE HOUSE?
THAT'S WHAT I THINK WE NEED TO
FIGURE OUT RIGHT NOW AND I'D
LOVE TO HEAR OTHER PEOPLE'S
THOUGHTS ON THAT.
I MEAN I WRITE BECAUSE ONCE
AGAIN BECAUSE THIS IS AT AN
INTERSECTION AND IT'S HIGHLY
VISIBLE AND YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU
WALK PAST THIS HOUSE OR AT
LEAST ME MY EYE GOES TOWARDS
THAT CARPORT IN MY EYE DOES GO
TOWARDS THAT BOY.
IT JUST DOES AND YOU KNOW, NOT
THAT I MEAN OBVIOUSLY WE'RE
LOOKING AT THE APPLICATION ON
HAND BUT EVEN LIKE LOOKING AT
THIS KIND OF NEXT PROPOSAL
WE'RE NOW THERE'S A CANOPY
THAT'S GOING TO GO OVER IT.
IT'S JUST KIND OF  INTO TO AN
APPEARANCE THAT REALLY ISN'T IN
MY MIND COMPATIBLE WITH THE
CHARACTER HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING.
I MEAN LET'S JUST TAKE A BRIEF
TANGENT AND AND TALK ABOUT THE
AWNING JUST FOR A SECOND
QUICKLY.
IS ANYONE IN SUPPORT OF THE
AWNING LIKE DO YOU SEE THAT
AWNING AND APPROVE IT OR IS OK?
>> I DON'T HEAR ANYONE DOES
ANYONE WANT TO SAY SOMETHING
ABOUT THE AWNING OTHER THAN
WHAT COMMISSIONER ROGER
GOODELL, THE COMMISSIONER SAID?
YEAH, I DID NOT EVEN OPEN THE
DOOR WHERE THE PROPOSED CHANGE
IN RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
PASSING OF THE GARAGE AND THE
BUILDING THE HOUSE.
SO YEAH, I SEE MORE THAN ONE
UNIT VERSUS TWO SEPARATE.
>> I AGREE I'M SORT OF CONFUSED
BY THE AWNING BECAUSE THERE'S
ALREADY AN AWNING THERE, THE
AWNINGS THERE, THE DOORS JUST
TOO FAR INTO THE AWNING IF IF
THE DOOR WAS BROUGHT UP LIKE
THREE AND PUSHED KIND OF THREE
FOOT BACK FROM THE FACE OF THE
GARAGE, I FEEL LIKE MAYBE
THAT'S GETTING THE APPLICANT
GETTING WHAT THEY WANT.
>> THEY CAN, YOU KNOW, RE
REHABILITATE THE INTERIOR HOW
THEY WANT AND THEN WE STILL GET
THAT THAT LOOK THAT VOID AND
THERE'S STILL AN AWNING.
>> BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT IS
APPROVED OR WHAT IS PROPOSED
HERE.
>> JILL, WHAT WAS THE WORD THAT
YOU USED IN A PREVIOUS MEETING
?
WE WERE LOOKING AT SOMETHING
WHERE THERE WERE TWO STRUCTURES
AND THEN THERE WAS A AND
INDENTATION DID YOU CALL IT AN
APOSTROPHE OR SOMETHING?
THAT'S A HYPHEN AND A HYPHEN.
SORRY.
YEAH, THAT'S CONNECTING TWO
THINGS, RIGHT?
YEAH.
RATHER THAN DISCONNECTING TWO
THINGS, YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
>> NO, BUT I THINK WHAT YOU
WERE JUST DESCRIBING REMINDS ME
OF THAT A HYPHEN IF THAT IF THE
DOORWAY WEREN'T FLUSH WITH THE
FRONT EDGE OF THE GARAGE BUT
RECESSED BACK ENOUGH TO CREATE
ARTICULATION BUT STILL FORWARD
ENOUGH THE SPACE PLANNING NEEDS
OF THE APPLICANT WERE MET.
YEAH THAT COULD BE A HAPPY
MEDIUM WHERE WE STILL GET SOME
SORT OF ARTICULATION THERE
RIGHT.
AGREED.
>> ARE THERE CAN SOMEONE SPEAK
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION OK ALL
RIGHT OK SO I THINK THAT IF
SOMEONE WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
FINAL COMMENT I'D BE HAPPY TO
HEAR IT.
>> DOES ANYONE WANT TO CIRCLE
BACK OK, I THINK I JUST YEAH IT
MIGHT BE USEFUL TO THE
APPLICANT THAT THAT ARE AM I
SUMMARIZING THIS APPROPRIATELY
THAT A CONCERN IS SORT
OF LOSING THAT VOID PROBABLY
PRIMARILY BUT ALSO WITH THE THE
OTHER THINGS THAT LOSING THE
VOID AND MOVING THAT DAURA
WOULD REQUIRE YOU TO DO TO KEEP
IT COVERED AND HAVE STEPS THEN
WOULD REALLY MAKE A CHANGE.
SO THE VOID IS SORT OF OUR
BIGGEST ISSUE LOSING THAT VOID
AND THEN THE THINGS THAT THAT
ARE BEING PROPOSED THAT WOULD
TAKE CARE OF NOT HAVING THE
VOID OR SORT OF CREATING A
DIFFERENT VOID WHICH AREN'T
PART OF THIS PROPOSAL BUT
CAUSES CONCERN.
>> IS THAT EFFECTIVE?
YEAH, I AGREE WITH WITH WHAT'S
SAID THERE AND I FEEL LIKE THIS
IS UNFORTUNATELY VERY CLOSE AND
I FEEL LIKE IS IT IS THIS A
POSSIBILITY WHERE WE CAN
POSTPONE THIS APPLICATION IF
WHAT YOU'VE HEARD US SAY IS
SORT OF AMENABLE TO LIKE IF YOU
LIKE THE IDEAS AND WANT TO
RESUBMIT NEXT MONTH WE WILL
YEAH.
YOU CAN COME UP OUR FIRST
VERY
,VERY QUICK BERNARD PLEASE.
YEAH, ONE THING IS IS THERE HAS
TO BE NO MONEY SO THAT IS A
MISCOMMUNICATION ON MY PART.
I WHEN I TALK TO STEVEN I
THOUGHT THEY JUST WANTED KIND
OF A PROPOSAL.
I GUY SAID LIKE WHAT WOULD YOU
DO WITH BACKGROUND INFORMATION
THAT CAN BE REWORKED WITH THE
EXISTING SO IT DOESN'T HAVE TO
HAPPEN ON THAT ABSOLUTELY
DOESN'T HAVE TO HAPPEN.
SO THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
THE PRACTICE IN REGARDS TO IT
CAN BE IF YOU WANTED IT THE
THREE EAT OUT OR WHATEVER IT
COULD BE WOULD THAT IS CEDAR
SHAPE AND TO MAX THE HOUSE AND
THE STYLE OF THE HOUSE THAT
THEY HAVE THEIR EXISTING
ALREADY WE CAN THAT'S PLANS
WITH THAT HOUSE WE WOULDN'T
EVEN BE NOTICEABLE NOW IN
REGARDS TO THE BOY I DO WHAT
YOU SAID THERE.
I DO AGREE LIKE IF YOU WANTED
IT INSIDE AND STILL HAD THAT
YOU COULD ACHIEVE THAT AND YOU
STILL HAVE YOUR BOY HAVE FOR
THE DRAINAGE.
BUT I'VE SEEN THE GUTTER CAN
ABSOLUTELY BE REUSED WITH THE
DOOR THERE IN THAT PLACE AND
EXACTLY HOW IT IS NOW WITHOUT
ADDING ON OK, VERY GOOD.
WELL STABILIZING THAT GUTTER
FOR THE DRAINAGE OK I FEEL LIKE
THAT YEAH I'M SORRY AND SON DO
YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD.
I JUST WE'RE OK WE'RE GOOD ALL
RIGHT WE'RE SO WE'RE GOING TO
WE'RE GOING TO POSTPONE THIS
APPLICATION THIS APPLICATION IS
VERY CLOSE.
>> IT'S A BIT IT'S IT'S A BIT
INCOMPLETE AND I THINK THAT IF
WE POSTPONE IT AND YOU MAKE THE
RIGHT CHANGES, IT'S POSSIBLE
THAT WE RECONVENE NEXT MONTH
AND THIS WILL BE APPROVED.
BUT THIS IS LIKE A GUARANTEE
OF APPROVAL OR ANYTHING LIKE
THAT.
RIGHT.
SO WHAT I HEARD BERNARD SAY
SOME OF THOSE THINGS I WAS NOT
ON BOARD WITH.
AND SO BERNARD, WHAT YOU HAVE
TO DO IS IS GET THOSE IDEAS
GATHERED IN AN EMAIL OR HAVE A
PHONE CALL WITH MR. ATURE IN
THE CITY AND SHE WILL EXPLAIN
TO YOU WHAT IS VERY LIKE WHAT
IS IN APPROVABLE ADDITION TO
THIS HOUSE.
OK, SO WE'RE GOING TO VOTE ON A
ANAPOLIS, OK?
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF POSTPONEMENT PLEASE SAY YES
.
YES, OK, ALL OPPOSED SAY NO
GREAT OK.
>> OH I WAS A YES.
SO THIS THIS APPLICATION
POSTPONED.
WE'LL SEE IT AGAIN NEXT MONTH
AND PLEASE DO USE MISS MISS
THATCHER AS A RESOURCE.
OK,
LET'S MOVE ON.
>> IT'S GOING TO BE HEARING TWO
TO TWENTY FOUR AND TWO TWENTY
SIX OFF MAIN STREET.
>> MISS THATCHER WHEN YOU ARE
READY OK STAFF REPORT PLEASE
GIVE ME ONE MOMENT HERE SEE
OK
OK TWO TWENTY FOUR IN TWO
TWENTY SIX OFF MAIN STREET IS
AT THE CORNER OF S MAIN AND
WEST LIBERTY.
IT'S A ONE STOREY BRICK ART
MODERNE BUILDING THAT WAS
ORIGINALLY BUILT WELL IT WAS
ORIGINALLY BUILT AS A THREE
STOREY ITALIANATE COMMERCIAL
BUILDING THAT WAS OCCUPIED BY
MAC AND COMPANY DEPARTMENT
STORE.
THEY HAD FOUR OR FIVE BAY
BUILDING ON THIS CORNER THE
ABILITY TO SEE OFF IN THE
DISTANCE HERE WAS PART OF THE
SAME BUILDING.
IT'S THE ONLY REMAINING THREE
STOREY BIT.
THERE WAS MORE ON EITHER SIDE
OF IT INCLUDING THIS CORNER IN
1899 A FIRE DAMAGE THE UPPER
STORIES AND THEY JUST CUT DOWN
TO A SINGLE STORY AND IN
NINETEEN THIRTY NINE
CUNNINGHAMS DRUGS INSTALLED THE
ART MODERNE FACADE THAT YOU SEE
ON THE BUILDING TODAY THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING APPROVAL
TO CONSTRUCT A ROOFTOP STAIR
ENCLOSURES KITCHEN AND BAR AND
TOILET ROOM.
>> THE EXISTING ROOF AT THE
EASTERN END OF THE BUILDING
WILL BE LOWERED INTO AN
EXISTING PLANUM SPACE.
MECHANICAL UNITS WILL BE
RELOCATED AND SCREENED, PLANTER
BOXES WILL FOLLOW THE PARAPET
AND A METAL GUARDRAIL WILL BE
PLACED INSIDE OF THE PLANTER
BOXES.
THIS IS A SURPRISINGLY
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION.
IT HAS A BIT TO IT.
>> BUT LET ME WALK YOU THROUGH
THE PHOTOS AND DRAWINGS SO
PRINCIPLES IN THERE NOW THEY
OCCUPY BOTH OF THESE SPACES.
THIS USED TO BE THAT LITTLE
FRAME SHOP AT A PREVIOUS
MEETING THE DC DECLARED THAT
THE THE INSET HERE SPEAKING
OF INSETS AND THIS BUILDING
NEXT DOOR IS A HISTORIC FEATURE
OF THE BUILDING AND SHOULD NOT
BE CHANGED.
THERE IT IS.
THAT'S THE ONE WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
THIS IS THERE'S AN EXISTING
PARAPET UP HERE THAT'S PRETTY
TALL.
WE'LL GET TO IT IN THE DRAWER
IN A SEC.
YOU CAN SEE IN THE BACK HERE
HOW TALL THAT IS.
THERE'S A THERE'S COOL CHIMNEY
THAT WOULD REMAIN THE SITE IS
JUST A BIG RECTANGLE.
HERE IS THE EXISTING DEMO PLAN
.
SO THE MECHANICAL UNITS THAT
ARE PINK WOULD BE MOVED AROUND
SOME EXISTING ONES THAT HAVE TO
STAY WHERE THEY ARE WOULD BE
SCREENED AND THIS AREA IN THE
FRONT WOULD BE THE THE THE ROOF
WOULD BE REMOVED AND DROPPED
INTO A SPACE A DEAD SPACE
THAT'S THERE THAT'S LEFT OVER
FROM THE PREVIOUS BUILDING.
IT'S VERY CONVENIENT THAT THEY
CAN JUST DO THAT AND LOWER THE
ROOF DOWN IN ORDER TO GIVE THEM
A HIGHER PARAPET GOING AROUND
THE EDGE.
HERE'S WHAT THEY'RE PROPOSING
TO END UP WITH ALL OF THIS.
THE WALKING SPACES ARE
MANUFACTURED WOOD DECKING
.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
LITTLE BUILDINGS.
THIS IS THE KITCHEN BAR, NOT A
BUILDING BUT YOU KNOW WHAT I
MEAN A ROOFTOP EDITION.
THERE'S A TOILET ROOM HERE WITH
SOME STORAGE IN THE BACK.
THERE'S A STAIR ENCLOSURE IN
THE IN THE WAY BACK AND THERE
IS ANOTHER STAIR THAT'S MORE
ACCESSIBLE DIRECTLY FROM THE
RESTAURANT.
>> THE MECHANICAL AREAS WOULD
ALL HAVE SCREENING AROUND THEM
TO KEEP PEOPLE AWAY FROM THEM
AND AROUND THE EDGES THIS GREEN
PLANTER BOX, IT'S FOUR FEET
DEEP AND IT'S DESIGNED TO KEEP
PEOPLE AWAY FROM THE EDGE
OF THE BUILDING AND INSIDE
OF THE PLANTER BOXES IS A METAL
GUARDRAIL THERE FOR THE SAME
REASON THIS IS THE BACK ALLEY
ELEVATION YOU COULD SEE THAT
REAR STAIR THERE'S A STAIR
THERE ALREADY.
THEY WOULD JUST HAVE TO EXTEND
UP HIGHER TO GO UP ONTO THE
ROOF WHICH IS GREAT.
THAT'S A GREAT PLACE FOR IT.
SO THAT'S A SECOND MEANS
OF EGRESS FROM THE ROOF.
THESE ARE THE BUILDINGS IN THE
DISTANCE LIKE SORRY I KEEP
SAYING BUILDING THESE ARE THE
ADDITIONS IN THE DISTANCE THE
THE BAR AND THIS AND THE OTHER
STAIR AND THE TOILET ROOMS
THERE'S A GLASS GUARDRAIL HERE.
I THINK THAT'S THE ONLY PLACE
THAT IT'S NECESSARY BECAUSE
WE'VE GOT THE PLANTERS AND THE
ALL THE WAY ON THE OTHER SIDE
SO NO CHANGES TO THE BUILDING
REALLY AT ALL.
>> SO THE EXTERIOR WALLS THIS
IS ALL GOING ON THE ROOF AND
WITHIN THAT SPACE YOU COULD SEE
HOW THE BUILDING'S LOOK IN
DIRECT PROFILE HERE AND HERE IS
HOW THEY LOOK FROM THE FRONT.
THIS IS NOT FROM THE OBSERVERS
I VIEW.
HOWEVER, TWENTY SEVEN FEET AT
ITS TALLEST
SECTION DRAWING
THESE ARE THE SCREENING FOR THE
MECHANICAL UNIT IS IS METAL
WALLS WITH HORIZONTAL SLATS.
OK, HERE'S THE LINE OF SIGHT
DRAWINGS FROM STRAIGHT ACROSS
MAIN STREET YOU REALLY COULDN'T
SEE MUCH AND I HAD THE
CONVERSATION THE ARCHITECTS
THAT OUR GOAL IS TO NOT HAVE A
BUNCH OF PATIO UMBRELLAS ON THE
ROOF THAT LOOK LIKE MUSHROOMS
SPROUTING FROM THE FROM THE TOP
OF THE BUILDING.
>> YOU MIGHT STILL GET THOSE
YOU MIGHT STILL SEE THOSE BUT I
SHOULDN'T REALLY SAY PATIO
UMBRELLAS.
THERE WON'T BE ANY SORT OF LIKE
LARGE PERGOLA SHADE STRUCTURE
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT UP HERE
THAT STAYS THERE ALL THE TIME.
LUSKIN'S ABOUT TABLE UMBRELLAS.
>> MM HMM.
3D VIEWS
AND JUST NOMINALLY
VISIBLE THIS IS FROM KITTY
CORNER ACROSS THE INTERSECTION
IN FRONT OF SHINOLA.
YEAH.
AND THIS ONE ON THE BOTTOM IS
STRAIGHT ACROSS FROM THE CHERRY
REPUBLIC.
SO SO YOU'LL SEE A LITTLE STUFF
ON THE BACK BUT THAT'S WHERE
YOU SHOULD SEE THE STUFF.
>> IF THERE'S GOING TO BE NEW
STUFF YOU SHOULD KEEP IT ON THE
BACK AND IT'S IT'S
STRAIGHTFORWARD AND IT'S SIMPLE
.
>> IT'S NOT EVEN MECHANICAL
UNITS THAT ARE GOING TO BE
VISIBLE.
>> THERE ARE GREAT DETAILS
INCLUDED IN THE PROPOSAL HOW
THEY'RE GOING TO GO ABOUT
PULLING THIS OFF FROM THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS.
I'VE ALREADY READ ONE AND TWO
AND NINE AND 10 TO YOU TODAY
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN ADDITIONS TO ROOFS SUCH
AS RESIDENTIAL OFFICE OR
STORAGE SPACES, ELEVATOR
HOUSINGS DECKS AND TERRACES,
DORMERS OR SKYLIGHTS WHEN
REQUIRED BY THE NEW USE
OF THEIR INCONSPICUOUS THE
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY AND DO NOT
DAMAGE OR OBSCURE CHARACTER
DEFINING STRUCTURES.
IT'S RECOMMENDED A PLACE NEW
ADDITIONS SUCH AS BALCONIES AND
HOUSES ARE NON CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATIONS AND
LIMITING THEIR SIZE AND SCALE
AND TO DESIGN ADDITIONAL
STORIES WHEN REQUIRED FOR THE
NEW USE ARE SET BACK FROM THE
WALL PLAIN AND ARE AS
INCONSPICUOUS AS POSSIBLE WHEN
VIEWED FROM THE STREET FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS, IT'S
NOT RECOMMENDED TO CONSTRUCT
ADDITIONAL STORIES OF THE
HISTORIC APPEARANCE IS
RADICALLY CHANGED FROM THE
BUILDING SITE GUIDELINES.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE A NEW LANDSCAPE
FEATURE.
I'M SORRY I DON'T THINK THAT
THIS REALLY PLANTERS DON'T
REALLY COUNT AS LANDSCAPE
FEATURES FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
IT'S APPROPRIATE WHEN REQUIRED
TO DESIGN ADDITIONAL STORIES
THAT ARE SET BACK FROM THE
FRONT AND SIDE WHILE PLANES
THAT ARE AS INCONSPICUOUS AS
POSSIBLE WHEN VIEWED FROM THE
STREET AND LOCATING ROOFTOP
ADDITIONS TO BE INCONSPICUOUS
WHEN VIEWED FROM THE STREET
IT'S A LITTLE BIT REDUNDANT.
LET'S SEE
PER THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR'S GUIDELINES, NO
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING ARE
OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
BY THE PROPOSAL.
THE ROOF ADDITIONS HEIGHT IS
LOW AND IS SET BACK IN ORDER TO
MINIMIZE THE LINE OF SIGHT FOR
PEDESTRIANS ON MAIN STREET AND
LIBERTY, THIS WORK WOULD ONLY
BE NOMINALLY VISIBLE FROM
EITHER OF THOSE STREETS.
IT DOES NOT OVERPOWER OR ALTER
THE ORIGINAL BUILDING AND THE
WORK SHOULD HAVE NO NEGATIVE
EFFECTS ON THE HISTORIC
BUILDING OR OTHER STRUCTURES IN
THE MAIN STREET HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
SO STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
>> WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT FROM
COMMISSIONERS ROSS AND KAPLIN
START.
THIS WILL BE A SHORT REVIEW.
I AGREE WITH STAFF'S
CHARACTERIZATION OF THE
APPLICATION AND THE KIND
OF CURRENT CONDITIONS.
YEAH, IT JUST SEEMS LIKE A
REALLY WELL THOUGHT OUT NICELY
KIND OF LAID OUT LIGHT TOUCH TO
THE BUILDING AGREEMENT.
>> OK, THANK YOU BOTH WITH THE
APPLICANT.
>> PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM.
>> UH PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD YOU'VE
GOT FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK AND
PLEASE GIVE US YOUR REPORT.
HELLO JANE HOPKINS WITH HOPKINS
BURNS DESIGN STUDIO
PRESERVATION ARCHITECTS FOR THE
PROJECT AND GREG MCLEAN DID THE
SAME ADDRESS YES 113 S FOURTH
AVENUE ANN ARBOR.
I THINK EVERYTHING HAS BEEN
SAID GOOD WRAPPED IT UP VERY
WELL.
OUR GOAL OBVIOUSLY WAS TO BE
HISTORICALLY APPROPRIATE IN THE
DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT,
MINIMIZE ANY NEGATIVE IMPACT
BUT YET UTILIZE A WONDERFUL
OUTDOOR URBAN SPACE FOR THE
PUBLIC TO ENJOY AS PART OF THE
ENGAGEMENT OF OF MAIN STREET.
SO WE WE ARE HERE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MAY HAVE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, JEANNE.
DO WE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS?
>> I HAD ONE I GUESS IT'S VERY
I SEE YOU'RE LOWERING THE ROOF
STRUCTURE WHICH IS SOUNDS LIKE
A REALLY CREATIVE SOLUTION.
I'M NOT SURE WHAT EXACTLY BUT I
GUESS JUST JUST GETTING IT
LOWER.
BUT I'M JUST HOW HOW THEN I SAW
LIKE HALF OF IT'S BEING LOWERED
BUT I DON'T REALLY SEE LIKE A
BIG STEP UP ANYWHERE.
>> I SAW SOME RAMP'S BUT AM I
READING THE FLOOR PLAN
CORRECTLY THAT IT'S IT'S MORE
OR LESS ONE LEVEL EVEN THOUGH
HALF OF IT IS GETTING LOWERED?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
THE DRAINAGE SHOOT AS ABOUT
FOUR FEET OF SPACE THE ORIGINAL
SECTION FOR FLOORING IS STILL
IN THE BUILDING AND IT'S ON TOP
OF THE THAT CEILING STRUCTURE
FORCE STRUCTURE THAT WAS THE
SECOND FLOOR WAS ABOUT FOUR
FEET UP TO WHERE THE ROOF IS
AND THE ROOF SLOPES TO THE BACK
OK FOR DRAINAGE.
SO OUR GOAL IS TO REDUCE THAT
FOUR FEET TO ABOUT TWO FEET.
YES.
PUT A NEW ROOFING MEMBRANE AT
THAT POINT AND THEN RIGHT MY
COLLEAGUE AND THEN PUT A A
PEDESTAL DRAINAGE ROOF SO THAT
ACTUALLY THE NEW PEDESTAL ROOF
WILL BE SWOPE'S FLAT OR TIE
RIGHT BACK INTO WHERE WE DID
THE CUT OUT AND BE RIGHT ON TO
THE EXISTING ROOF.
SO THAT WAS A VERY GOOD
DESCRIPTION AND ALSO THE THE
DIAGRAMMATICALLY RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE VISUAL AMONG US LIKE ME
VERY, VERY HELPFUL.
OK, THAT'S VERY INTERESTING.
AND THEN CAN YOU TALK MORE
ABOUT THE IDEA OF HAVING THE
ROOF PLANTERS THERE?
I THINK IT'S AN INTERESTING
ADDITION AND THE STAFF REPORT
SAID IT'S TO KEEP PEOPLE AWAY
FROM THE EDGE.
IS THAT IS THAT REALLY TRUE?
YES.
YEAH, WE FEEL WE AGREE THAT
EVEN THOUGH PEOPLE WANT TO BE
UP TO THE EDGE OF A PAIR BUT
IT'S A DANGEROUS POSITION TO
PUT PEOPLE AND NOT ONLY PEOPLE
THAT ARE UP THERE ENJOYING
BEVERAGES OF THEIR CHOICE BUT
ALSO IT'S A LIABILITY FOR THE
ANYBODY POTENTIALLY DOWN ON THE
SIDEWALK.
SO WE FEEL THAT IT'S SAFER TO
PULL THOSE PEOPLE AWAY, GIVES
SOME BREATHING SPACE, IF YOU
WILL, BETWEEN WHERE THE PATRONS
CAN STAND AND HAVE A RAILING
THERE AS WELL AND THERE CAN BE
A SMALL DRINK REAL AT THAT
POINT AND AND PREVENT ANYBODY
FROM GETTING TOO CLOSE TO THAT
THAT PARAPET AND PROTECTING THE
PARAPET.
>> VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ARE THERE OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT?
>> OK, PLEASE TAKE A SEAT.
WE MIGHT CALL YOU BACK UP IF WE
NEED YOU BUT WE'RE GOING TO
MOVE ON THE PUBLIC HEARING SO
THE PUBLIC HEARINGS OPEN FOR
THIS APPLICATION AT
TWO TWENTY
FOUR TO TWENTY SIX SOUTH MAIN
STREET.
>> I DON'T SEE ANYONE HERE.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ZOOM ROOM?
NO.
OK, VERY GOOD.
SO THEN WE WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION AND I WILL ASK
COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A MOTION.
>> YES I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT TWO TO SIX SOUTH
MAIN STREET A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE MAIN STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT
A ROOF DECK STAIR ENCLOSURES,
KITCHEN BAR AND TOILET ROOM AS
PROPOSED THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE
IN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS AND
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATE
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE TO
NINE TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ALTERATIONS FOR THE NEW USE
ADDITIONS BUILDING SITE AND
DISTRICT NEIGHBORHOODS SETTING
SECOND GREAT MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER FORNARI AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON.
DO WE HAVE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
OK, THANK THERE'S PROBABLY NO
DISCUSSION BECAUSE IT'S MOSTLY
INVISIBLE PROJECT FROM THE
RIGHT AWAY.
I MEAN I THINK THAT'S KIND
OF THE THE THE GIST OF IT THERE
IS YOU KNOW SOME OF IT IS
VISIBLE FROM THE ALLEY.
DOES ANYONE HAVE A COMMENT ON
KIND OF WHAT YOU CAN SEE FROM
THE ALLEY OR IS EVERYONE JUST
AGREEING WITH STAFF THAT WHAT
YOU CAN SEE IS IS MINIMAL?
THE MATERIALS SEEM RIGHT.
>> IT SEEMS LIKE IT'S IN THE
RIGHT PLACE AND MORE OR LESS
THAT SEEMS WE HAVE CONSENSUS
THERE.
>> WELL BEFORE WE GO TO VOTE
WE'VE SEEN THIS PROJECT A FEW
TIMES SO I DO JUST WANT TO
COMMEND THE OWNERS FOR NOT
GIVING UP ON THE IDEA OF THE
TOP ADDITION AT THIS PROPERTY
AND ALSO REALLY FOR FOR
PARTNERING WITH A DESIGN FIRM
THAT SPECIALIZES IN HISTORIC
PRESERVATION THAT IS REALLY
HELPFUL IN GETTING THESE TRICKY
PROJECTS TO ADAPT TO THE THE
THE STANDARDS I WILL JUST SAY
THAT THE IDEA OF THE ROOFTOP
PATIO IS VERY COMPELLING IN
THIS LOCATION.
>> I THINK IT'S JUST A GREAT
IDEA.
THE EXECUTION OF THE DESIGN
SHOWS A THOROUGH KNOWLEDGE
OF HGC STANDARDS.
AND SO YEAH, I'M ALSO
SUPPORTING THIS PROJECT.
>> SO LET'S JUST WITHOUT
FURTHER ADO GO TO VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
OK, THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
OK
WELL LET'S MOVE ON TO NEW
BUSINESS AND THERE IS NO NEW
BUSINESS IS THAT CORRECT?
THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, THERE MUST HAVE BEEN THAT
WAS EXACTLY SO OK NOW WE DO
HAVE MINUTES FROM MARCH SO DOES
ANYONE HAVE ANY COMMENTS OR
CORRECTIONS FROM THE MARCH
MINUTES?
I FEEL LIKE COMMISSIONER KOHANA
REALLY WENT OVER THE MINUTES
WITH A FINE TOOTH COMB SO NOW
SOMEONE'S GOING TO HAVE TO TAKE
THAT ON.
BUT HERE NO CORRECTIONS WILL
APPROVE THE MARCH MINUTES AND
NOW WE'LL ASK IF THERE'S ANY
REPORTS FROM COMMISSIONERS AND
WE DID HAVE SOME ASSIGNMENTS
HAPPEN LAST MONTH BUT MAYBE NO
ONE'S THERE'S THERE'S NO
UPDATES.
>> YEAH, OK.
OK, WELL AND NOW LET'S MOVE ON
TO ASSIGNMENT'S WE'VE GOT THE
MAY MAY 6TH MEETING OH WAIT THE
MAY 9TH MEETING WE'LL HAVE A
MAY 6TH FIVE P.M. REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
IF I COULD INTERRUPT FOR ONE
SECOND IT MIGHT NOT BE THE
RIGHT TIME TO TALK ABOUT IT BUT
FOR THE MAY 9TH MEETING I WILL
BE AT THE MICHIGAN HISTORIC
PRESERVATION NETWORK
CONFERENCE.
OH MY GOSH.
AND WE'RE A LITTLE SHORTHANDED
RIGHT NOW IN PLANNING AND WE
DON'T REALLY HAVE ANYONE TO
STAFF A MEETING ON MAY NINE.
SO THIS SOUNDS PERFECT TIME TO
BRING THIS UP.
I NEED TO ASK YOU GUYS AND I'M
TRYING TO LOOK RIGHT NOW TO SEE
IF WE CAN GET COUNCIL CHAMBERS
WHETHER YOU WOULD BE ABLE TO
MOVE IT ONE WEEK LATER TO MAY
16TH, OK, AND WE'RE ALLOWED TO
DO THAT THIS LATE IN THE GAME.
>> OH YEAH.
NO ISSUES.
SO THAT'S NOT AN ISSUE WE GOT A
WHOLE MONTH.
THE ONLY THING IS I AM HAVING
TROUBLE TELLING YOU SOMEBODY
ALREADY GOT COUNCIL CHAMBERS OR
NOT
ANYONE BOOKED THAT DAY I AM
OK CLEVELAND OK WE GOT TO AND
THE COMMISSIONER AND
COMMISSIONER ROSS IS ALSO OUT
OK I DO KNOW WHAT DO YOU GUYS
THINK WE CAN DO THIS I THINK WE
GET TO OK OK FOUR OF US SO YEAH
THEY'LL JUST BE FOUR OF YOU SO
SO IF SOMEONE GETS SICK THEN
LET ME KNOW AS SOON AS POSSIBLE
.
>> DOES IT HAVE TO BE A
THURSDAY?
NO IT DOESN'T HAVE TO IT'S JUST
THAT HERE LET ME LET ME IS IT
SOMETHING AT THE THURSDAY FOR
YOU GUYS OR WHEN ARE WHEN ARE
YOU AVAILABLE THAT WE I'M IN
CLEVELAND ALL WEEK.
>> A WHOLE WEEK YEAH OK OK WELL
WEDNESDAYS PEACE OFFICERS
MEMORIAL DAY WHICH MEANS I'LL
BE AVAILABLE.
YEAH I MEAN IF YOU I'M SORRY UM
I MEAN I COULD DO EITHER
FOURTEEN OR FIFTEEN OK DO YOU
HAVE A PREFERENCE.
FOURTEENTH IS MY PREFERENCE
BETWEEN 14 AND 15 OK ON THE
FOURTEENTH COULD WE GET FIVE
FOR YOU.
SOUNDS LIKE OK YEAH I THINK WE
HIT FIVE ON THE FIFTEENTH RIGHT
.
WHAT ARE WE LOOKING AT NOW.
FIFTEENTH.
OH WE CAN'T DO IT ON THE
FOURTEENTH BECAUSE THAT'S A
PLANNING COMMISSION NIGHT SAME
TIME SORRY WE'RE ABOUT THIRTEEN
NO THAT'S A CITY COUNCIL NIGHT
OK WELL THE SIXTEENTH WORK THAT
IT WAS JUST FOUR OF US.
>> YEAH OK ALL RIGHT LET ME OR
WE CAN CANCEL THE BABYSITTING
THAT'S THE OTHER OPTION.
>> WELL WHAT IF WE DO THAT?
>> DOES THAT AUTOMATICALLY GET
APPROVED.
OH YEAH.
OH NO I WAS JUST I WAS JUST
ASKING FOR IT SIXTY YEAH BUT
SINCE THE APPLICATION WAS
DETERMINED TO BE INCOMPLETE
YES.
ASKING FOR MORE INFORMATION OK
CLOCK STARTS OVER GREAT.
YEAH.
SO THAT'S JUST YOU'RE SAYING
JUST SKIP ME IF WE COULD JUST
GET HOW MANY AND HOW MANY I UM
I DON'T HAVE ANY ITCHING TO
COME IN RIGHT NOW I THINK THAT
WOULD BE OK WITH OK I MEAN IT
JUST MEANS THAT YOU MIGHT BE
MEETING AND WE MIGHT NOT HAVE A
QUORUM AND IT MIGHT MEAN THAT
JUNE IS A LONG MEETING.
>> YEAH BUT ALL RIGHT THEN I'M
GOING TO GO WITH NO CANCELING
THE MAIN MEETING.
YEAH.
AND RESCHEDULING IT OK WELL
YOU'RE JUST SKIPPING IT.
YEAH OK OK SO THANK YOU CHIP
FOR VOLUNTEERING.
WE HAVE A REVIEW COMMITTEE
RIGHT NOW THERE'S NO NEED I'M
NEVER DOING IT AGAIN.
I'M A OK THAT WAS EASY.
>> GREAT.
WELL WE'LL LOOK FOR YOU IN JUNE
IF IT WORKS OUT IN YOUR
CALENDAR.
OK WELL I FEEL LIKE REPORTS
FROM STAFF HAS ALREADY BEEN
DONE BUT MAYBE THERE'S MORE.
I HAVE ANOTHER ONE.
>> OH GOOD.
THE RETREAT IS SATURDAY RIGHT.
AND WE'RE GOING TO BE IN THE
STUNNING BEAUTY OF THE FIRST
FLOOR LARKHAM CITY HALL
CONFERENCE ROOM AT I PROMISE
YOU NEXT YEAR WE'LL GO
SOMEPLACE MORE INTERESTING BUT
IF YOU SHOW NINE WE'LL HAVE
BAGELS AND DONUTS AND CREAM
CHEESE AND COFFEE .
OK, 9AM 9:00 A.M. AND I PROMISE
TO HAVE YOU UP BY NOON IF NOT
BEFORE.
VERY GOOD.
SEE YOU ALL THERE.
OK, ANYTHING ELSE MISS THATCHER
.
THAT'S IT FOR ME OK.
ARE THERE ANY CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS TO DISCUSS
RIGHT NOW DURING YOUR CONCERNS?
COMMISSIONERS LET'S MOVE ON TO
COMMUNICATIONS I'M ASSUMING WE
ARE NO COMMUNICATE SMART IN
THAT CASE I WILL NOW ADJOURN
APRIL TWENTY TWENTY FOR EACH
MEETING AT EIGHT FORTY SEVEN PM
THANK YOU ALL.
>> THANK YOU